Dolphin Entertainment, Inc., a Florida corporation (the “Company,” “Dolphin,” “we,” “us” or “our”), is a leading independent entertainment marketing and premium content development company. Through its acquisitions of 42West LLC (“42West”), The Door Marketing Group, LLC (“The Door”), Shore Fire Media, Ltd (“Shore Fire”), Viewpoint Computer Animation Incorporated (“Viewpoint”), and Be Social Public Relations, LLC (“Be Social”) the Company provides expert strategic marketing and publicity services to all of the major film studios, and many of the leading independent and digital content providers, A-list celebrity talent, including actors, directors, producers, celebrity chefs, social media influencers and recording artists. The Company also provides strategic marketing publicity services and creative brand strategies for prime hotel and restaurant groups and consumer brands. The strategic acquisitions of 42West, The Door, Shore Fire, Viewpoint, and Be Social bring together premium marketing services, including digital and social media marketing capabilities, with premium content production, creating significant opportunities to serve respective constituents more strategically and to grow and diversify the Company’s business. Dolphin’s content production business is a long established, leading independent producer, committed to distributing premium, best-in-class film and digital entertainment. Dolphin produces original feature films and digital programming primarily aimed at family and young adult markets.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (“US GAAP”) and include the accounts of Dolphin, and all of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, including Dolphin Films, Inc, Dolphin SB Productions LLC, Dolphin Max Steel Holdings LLC, Dolphin JB Believe Financing, LLC, Dolphin JOAT Productions, LLC, 42West, The Door, Viewpoint, Shore Fire and Be Social.
The Company enters into relationships or investments with other entities, and in certain instances, the entity in which the Company has a relationship or investment may qualify as a variable interest entity (“VIE”). A VIE is consolidated in the financial statements if the Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE. The primary beneficiary is the party that has the power to direct activities that most significantly impact the activities of the VIE and has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. The Company has included JB Believe, LLC formed on December 4, 2012 in the State of Florida in its consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 as a VIE. For the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company also included Max Steel Productions, LLC formed on July 8, 2013 in the State of Florida.
On November 23, 2020, the Company filed an amendment to its Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Florida to effect a 1-for-5 reverse stock split (the “Reverse Stock Split”) of the authorized, issued and outstanding shares of the Common Stock. The Reverse Stock Split was effective as of 12:01 a.m. (Eastern Time) on November 27, 2020 (the “Effective Time”). At the Effective Time, the number of authorized shares of Common Stock was reduced from 200,000,000 shares to 40,000,000. The par value per share of Common Stock remains unchanged. As a result, each shareholder’s percentage ownership interest in the Company and proportional voting power remained unchanged. Any fractional shares resulting from the Reverse Stock Split were rounded up to the nearest whole share of Common Stock. All references to Common Stock or common stock price in these consolidated financial statements have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split.
Restatement to Prior Quarter Financial Statements
The Company has included in this report, its restatement of its consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, included in the Company’s Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2020. The restatement is due to incorrectly reporting pass-through expenses on certain marketing campaigns as revenue and direct cost expense. Upon further review, the Company determined that under these arrangements, it is acting as agent and the pass-through costs should not have been recorded as revenue or direct cost expense in its condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020. Please see note 4 for further discussion on the restatement.
DOLPHIN ENTERTAINMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2020 AND 2019
COVID-19
On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization categorized a novel coronavirus (COVID-19) as a pandemic, and it has spread throughout the United States. The outbreak of COVID-19 and public and private sector measures to reduce its transmission, such as the imposition of social distancing and orders to work-from-home, stay-at-home and shelter-in-place have adversely affected the demand for certain of the services the Company offers resulting in decreased revenues and cash flows. One of our subsidiaries operates in the food and hospitality sector and has been negatively impacted by the orders to either suspend or reduce operations of restaurants and hotels. Another subsidiary represents talent, such as actors, directors and producers. The revenues from these clients has been negatively impacted by the suspension of content production. Conversely, the television and streaming consumption around the globe has increased as well as the demand for consumer products. Revenues from the marketing of these shows and products has somewhat offset the decrease in revenue from the sectors discussed above. The Company has taken steps such as freezes on hiring, staff reductions, salary reductions and cuts in non-essential spending to mitigate the effects of COVID-19 on the Company’s financial results.
Between April 19, 2020 and April 23, 2020, the Company and its subsidiaries received five separate unsecured loans for an aggregate amount of $2.8 million (the “PPP Loans”) under the Paycheck Protection Program (the “PPP”) which was established under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”). Through our acquisition of Be Social, the Company assumed a PPP Loan of $304,169. Under the CARES Act, loan forgiveness is available for the sum of documented payroll costs, covered rent payments and covered utilities during the measurement period beginning on the date of first disbursement of the PPP Loans. For purposes of the CARES Act, payroll costs exclude compensation of an individual employee in excess of $100,000, prorated annually. Not more than 40% of the forgiven amount can be attributable to non-payroll costs. The receipt of these funds, and the forgiveness of the loan attendant to these funds, is dependent on the Company having initially qualified for the PPP Loans and qualifying for the forgiveness of the PPP Loans based on its adherence to the forgiveness criteria. The Company has not yet applied for forgiveness.
Depending on the extent and duration of the pandemic and the related economic impacts, COVID-19 may continue to impact our business and financial results, as well as significant judgements and estimates, including those related to goodwill and other asset impairments and allowances for doubtful accounts.
NOTE 2 - GOING CONCERN
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP and contemplate the continuation of the Company as a going concern. The Company has suffered recurring losses, including a net loss of $1,939,192, for the year ended December 31, 2020, and had an accumulated deficit of $97,972,041 as of December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had a working capital deficit of $2,956,142 and therefore does not have adequate capital to fund its obligations as they come due or to maintain or grow its operations. In addition, several of our subsidiaries operate in industries that have been adversely affected by the government mandated work-from-home, stay-at-home and shelter-in-place orders as a result of the novel coronavirus COVID-19. As a result, the Company’s revenues have been negatively impacted by a reduction in the services we provide to clients operating in these industries. The Company has taken measures such as a freeze on hiring, salary reductions, staff reductions and cuts in non-essential spending to mitigate the reduction in revenues. The Company is dependent upon funds from the issuance of debt securities, securities convertible into shares of Common Stock, sales of shares of Common Stock and financial support of certain shareholders. The continued spread of COVID-19 and uncertain market conditions may limit the Company’s ability to access capital. If the Company is unable to obtain funding from these sources within the next 12 months, it could be forced to curtail its business operations or liquidate.
DOLPHIN ENTERTAINMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2020 AND 2019
These factors raise substantial doubt about the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern within one year after these consolidated financial statements are issued. The consolidated financial statements, of which these notes form a part, do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. The Company’s management currently plans to raise any necessary additional funds through additional issuances of its Common Stock, securities convertible into its Common Stock and/or debt securities, as well as available bank and non-bank financing, or a combination of such financing alternatives. There is no assurance that the Company will be successful in raising additional capital. Any issuance of shares of Common Stock or securities convertible into Common Stock would dilute the equity interests of our existing shareholders, perhaps substantially. The Company currently has the rights to several scripts, including one currently in development for which it intends to obtain financing to produce and release following which it expects to earn a producer and overhead fee. There can be no assurances that such production, together with any other productions, will be commenced or released or that fees will be realized in future periods or at all. The Company is currently exploring opportunities to expand the services currently being offered by 42West, The Door, Viewpoint, Shore Fire and Be Social while reducing expenses of their respective operations through synergies with the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in expanding such services or reducing expenses. Between April 19, 2020 and April 23, 2020, the Company and its subsidiaries received five separate PPP Loans for an aggregate amount of $2.8 million under PPP which was established under the CARES Act. The application for the PPP Loans requires the Company to, in good faith, certify that the current economic uncertainty made the loan request necessary to support the ongoing operation of the Company. This certification further requires the Company to take into account our current business activity and our ability to access other sources of liquidity sufficient to support the ongoing operations in a manner that is not significantly detrimental to the business. The receipt of the funds from the PPP Loans and the forgiveness of the PPP Loans is dependent on the Company having initially qualified for the PPP Loans and qualifying for the forgiveness of such PPP Loans based on funds being used for certain expenditures such as payroll costs and rent, as required by the terms of the PPP Loans. The Company intends to apply for forgiveness of the PPP Loans, however, there is no assurance that the Company’s obligation under the PPP Loans will be forgiven. If the PPP Loans are not forgiven, the Company will need to repay the PPP Loans over a two-year period, with an interest rate of 1% per annum, commencing when the SBA notifies the borrower that all or a part of the PPP Loan has not been forgiven.
NOTE 3 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Use of Estimates