The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. The most significant estimates made by management in the preparation of the financial statements relate to the expected revenue and costs for investments in digital and feature film projects, estimates of sales returns and other allowances, provisions for doubtful accounts and impairment assessments for investment in feature film projects, goodwill and intangible assets. Actual results could differ materially from such estimates.
Additionally, the full impact of the COVID-19 outbreak is unknown and cannot be reasonably estimated. However, management has made appropriate accounting estimates on certain accounting matters, which include the allowance for doubtful accounts, carrying value of the goodwill and other intangible assets, carrying amount of certain convertible notes payable and embedded derivatives and warrant liabilities, based on the facts and circumstances available as of the reporting date. The Company’s future assessment of the magnitude and duration of the COVID-19 outbreak, as well as other factors, could result in material impacts to the Company’s financial statements in future reporting periods.
Statement of Comprehensive Income
In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) Topic 220, Comprehensive Income, a statement of comprehensive income has not been included as the Company has no items of other comprehensive income. Comprehensive loss is the same as net loss for all periods presented.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash deposits at financial institutions. The Company considers all highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents.
DOLPHIN ENTERTAINMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2020 AND 2019
Restricted Cash
Restricted cash represents amounts held by banking institutions as collateral for security deposits under leases for office space in New York City and Newton, Massachusetts. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019 the Company had a balance of $714,096 and $714,089, respectively, in restricted cash.
Fair Value Option (“FVO”) Election
2020 Convertible Notes
The Company accounts for certain convertible notes issued during the year ended December 31, 2020 under the fair value option election of ASC 825, Financial Instruments (“ASC-825”) as discussed below.
The convertible notes accounted for under the FVO election are each a debt host financial instruments containing embedded features which would otherwise be required to be bifurcated from the debt-host and recognized as separate derivative liabilities subject to initial and subsequent periodic estimated fair value measurements under ASC 815. Notwithstanding, ASC 825-10-15-4 provides for the “fair value option” (“FVO”) election, to the extent not otherwise prohibited by ASC 825-10-15-5, to be afforded to financial instruments, wherein bifurcation of an embedded derivative is not necessary, and the financial instrument is initially measured at its issue-date estimated fair value and then subsequently remeasured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis at each reporting period date.
The estimated fair value adjustment, as required by ASC 825-10-45-5, is recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (“OCI”) with respect to the portion of the fair value adjustment attributed to a change in the instrument-specific credit risk, with the remaining amount of the fair value adjustment recognized as other income (expense) in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. With respect to the above notes, as provided for by ASC 825-10-50-30(b), the estimated fair value adjustment is presented in a respective single line item within other income (expense) in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations, since the change in fair value of the convertible notes payable was not attributable to instrument specific credit risk.
Revenue Recognition
The Company earns revenues through its entertainment and publicity segment primarily from the following sources: (i) celebrity talent services; (ii) content marketing services under multiyear master service agreements in exchange for fixed project-based fees; (iii) individual engagements for entertainment content marketing services for durations of generally between three and six months; (iv) strategic communications services; (v) engagements for marketing of special events such as food and wine festivals; (vi) engagement for marketing of brands; (vii) arranging strategic marketing agreements between brands and social media influencers and (viii) content productions of marketing materials on a project contract basis. For these revenue streams, we collect fees through either fixed fee monthly retainer agreements, fees based on a percentage of contracts or project-based fees. The Company also earns revenue from its content production segment primarily by selling the licensing rights to its motion pictures through minimum guarantee arrangements for international sales and sales or usage-based royalties for domestic sales. The Company recognizes revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to our clients in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
Entertainment publicity and marketing
Revenue from our entertainment publicity and marketing segment consists of fees from the performance of professional services and billings for direct costs reimbursed by clients. Fees are generally recognized on a straight-line or monthly basis, as the services are consumed by our clients, which approximates the proportional performance on such contracts. Direct costs reimbursed by clients are billed as pass-through revenue with no mark-up. We enter into contracts that provide for third-party costs. We typically act as an agent in these types of arrangements and recognize the revenue only on the fees attributable to our performance of the contract and not including the third-party costs which are not recorded on our consolidated statement of operations. Revenues from content produced for digital marketing is recognized upon satisfactory delivery to the client. We also enter into management agreements with a roster of social media influencers and are paid a percentage of the revenue earned by the social media influencer. Due to the short-term nature of these contracts, the performance obligation is typically completed and revenue is recognized in the period in which the contract originated.
DOLPHIN ENTERTAINMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2020 AND 2019
Content production
Revenue from motion pictures is recognized upon transfer of control of the licensing rights of the motion picture or web series to the customer. For minimum guarantee licensing arrangements, the amount related to each performance obligation is recognized when the content is delivered, and the window for exploitation right in that territory has begun, which is the point in time at which the customer is able to begin to use and benefit from the content. For sales or usage-based royalty income, revenue is recognized starting at the exhibition date and is based on the Company’s participation in the box office receipts of the theatrical exhibitor and the performance of the motion picture. Cash received and amounts billed in advance of meeting the criteria for revenue recognition is classified as contract liabilities.
Property, Equipment and Leasehold Improvements
Property and equipment is recorded at cost and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the assets using the straight-line method. The Company recorded depreciation expense of $370,746 and $361,951, respectively for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. When items are retired or otherwise disposed of, income is charged or credited for the difference between net book value and proceeds realized thereon. Ordinary maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred, and replacements and betterments are capitalized. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the term of the related lease or the estimated useful lives of the assets. The range of estimated useful lives to be used to calculate depreciation and amortization for principal items of property and equipment are as follow:
The Company periodically reviews and evaluates the recoverability of property, equipment and leasehold improvements. Where applicable, estimates of net future cash flows, on an undiscounted basis, are calculated based on future revenue estimates. If appropriate and where deemed necessary, a reduction in the carrying amount is recorded. The Company has not had any material impairments of property, equipment and leasehold improvements.
Business Combinations
The Company accounts for business combinations under the acquisition method of accounting. Identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree are recognized and measured as of the acquisition date at fair value. Goodwill is recognized to the extent by which the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree exceeds the recognized basis of the identifiable assets acquired, net of assumed liabilities. Determining the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interest requires management’s judgment and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash flows, discount rates and asset lives among other items.
Intangible assets
In connection with the acquisitions of 42West on March 30, 2017, The Door on July 5, 2018, Viewpoint on October 31, 2018, Shore Fire on December 3, 2019 and Be Social on August 17, 2020, the Company acquired in aggregate an estimated $13.2 million of intangible assets with finite useful lives initially estimated to range from 3 to 14 years. The intangible assets consist primarily of customer relationships, trade names and non-compete agreements. Approximately $0.7 million of favorable lease intangible asset was reclassified in accordance with the new lease accounting in year ended December 31, 2019.
DOLPHIN ENTERTAINMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2020 AND 2019
Intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. If a triggering event has occurred, an impairment analysis is required. The impairment test first requires a comparison of undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated over the useful life of an asset to the carrying value of the asset. If the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, the asset would not be deemed recoverable. Impairment would then be measured as the excess of the asset’s carrying value over its fair value. See note 9 for further discussion.
Goodwill
As of December 31, 2020, in connection with its acquisitions of 42West, The Door, Viewpoint, Shore Fire, and Be Social, the Company has a balance of $19,627,856 of goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet which management has assigned to the entertainment publicity and marketing segment. The Company accounts for goodwill in accordance with FASB ASC No. 350, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (“ASC 350”). ASC 350 requires goodwill to be reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate a possible impairment. The Company evaluates goodwill in the fourth quarter or more frequently if management believes indicators of impairment exist. Such indicators could include but are not limited to (1) a significant adverse change in legal factors or in business climate, (2) unanticipated competition, or (3) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator.
The Company first assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its’ carrying amount, including goodwill. If management concludes that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its’ carrying amount, management conducts a quantitative goodwill impairment test. This impairment test involves comparing the fair value of the reporting unit with its’ carrying value (including goodwill). The Company estimates the fair values of its reporting units using a combination of the income, or discounted cash flows approach and the market approach, which utilizes comparable companies’ data. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, a goodwill impairment exists for the reporting unit and an impairment loss is recorded.