In accordance with ASC Subtopic 205-40, Going Concern, management evaluates whether relevant conditions and events that, when considered in the aggregate, indicate that it is probable the Company will be unable to meet its obligations as they become due within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. When relevant conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, initially indicate that it is probable that the Company will be unable to meet its obligations as they become due within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued (and therefore they raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern), management evaluates whether its plans that are intended to mitigate those conditions and events, when implemented, will alleviate substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Management’s plans are considered only to the extent that 1) it is probable that the plans will be effectively implemented and 2) it is probable that the plans will mitigate the conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. See Note 2 related to going concern.
Concentration of Risk
The Company maintains its cash and cash equivalents with financial institutions and, at times, balances may exceed federally insured limits of $250,000.
Reclassifications
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with current year presentation. These changes did not affect the equity or previously reported net losses.
Business Segments
The Company operates the following business segments:
1)
Entertainment Publicity and Marketing Segment- This segment primarily provides clients with diversified marketing services, including public relations, entertainment and hospitality content marketing, strategic marketing consulting and content production of marketing materials through 42West, The Door, Viewpoint, Shore Fire and as of August 17, 2020, Be Social. For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company’s revenues were primarily derived from this segment.
2)
Content Production Segment- This segment produces original motion picture and digital content. Revenues from this segment for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were related to the domestic and international distribution of the Company’s motion pictures, Max Steel and Believe.
See Note 19 for Segment Reporting for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Accounting guidance adopted in fiscal year 2020
In March 2019, the FASB issued new guidance on film production costs Accounting Standards Update (“ASU) 2019-02, (Entertainment Films- Other Assets - Film Costs (Subtopic 926-20)). The new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within those fiscal years and may be adopted early. The new guidance aligns the accounting for the production costs of an episodic series with those of a film by removing the content distinction for capitalization. It also addresses presentation, requires new disclosures for produced and licensed content and addresses cash flow classification for license agreements to better reflect the economics of an episodic series. The Company adopted this new guidance without a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
DOLPHIN ENTERTAINMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2020 AND 2019
In October 2018, the FASB issued new guidance on consolidation ASU 2018-17, Consolidation (Topic 810): Targeted Improvements to Related Party Guidance for Variable Interest Entities. The new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within those fiscal years and should be applied retrospectively with a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings at the beginning of the earliest period presented. Early adoption is permitted. The new guidance provides that indirect interests held through related parties in common control arrangements should be considered on a proportional basis for determining whether fees paid to decision makers and service providers are variable interests. The Company adopted this new guidance without a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued new guidance on fair value measurement (ASU 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement). The new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The guidance modifies the disclosure requirements on fair value by removing some requirements, modifying others, adding changes in unrealized gains and losses included in other comprehensive income (loss) for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements, and providing the option to disclose certain other quantitative information with respect to significant unobservable inputs in lieu of a weighted average. The Company adopted this new guidance without a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
Accounting Guidance not yet adopted
In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-06-Debt-Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging-Contracts in Entity's Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40)-Accounting For Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entity's Own Equity. The guidance simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. Consequently, more convertible debt instruments will be reported as a single liability instrument with no separate accounting for embedded conversion features. The ASU removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception, which will permit more equity contracts to qualify for it. The ASU also simplifies the diluted net income per share calculation in certain areas. The new guidance is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2021, and early adoption is permitted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company intends to early adopt the new guidance in the first quarter of 2021 and is currently evaluating the impact on its consolidated financial statements.
In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-12, Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes (Topic 740). This pronouncement enhances and simplifies various aspects of income tax accounting guidance. Among other things, the guidance amends the rules for recognizing deferred taxes for investments, performing intraperiod tax allocations and calculating income taxes in interim periods. It also reduces complexity in certain areas, including the accounting for transactions that result in a step-up in the tax basis of goodwill and allocating taxes to members of a consolidated group. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020, and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this update on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13 "Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments." ASU 2016-13 requires an entity to utilize a new impairment model known as the current expected credit loss ("CECL") model to estimate its lifetime "expected credit loss" and record an allowance that, when deducted from the amortized cost basis of the financial asset, presents the net amount expected to be collected on the financial asset. The CECL model is expected to result in more timely recognition of credit losses. ASU 2016-13 also requires new disclosures for financial assets measured at amortized cost, loans and available-for-sale debt securities. ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2023. Entities will apply the standard's provisions as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is adopted. The Company is in the process of evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-13 on the Company's consolidated financial statements and disclosures.
DOLPHIN ENTERTAINMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2020 AND 2019
NOTE 4 - PRIOR PERIOD REVISION AND RESTATEMENT
Prior Period Revision
During the preparation of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2020, the Company identified certain immaterial errors related to its accounting of the 2019 Lincoln Park Note, 2019 Lincoln Park Warrants and the Pinnacle Note (each as defined in Note 11 - Notes Payable-Convertible Notes below), which were corrected and reflected in the Company’s first quarter, 2020 Form 10-Q. The Company concluded that the conversion feature of the 2019 Lincoln Park Note and the 2019 Lincoln Park Warrants met the definition of a derivative and should have been recorded at fair value at inception and remeasured at each reporting period with changes in the fair value recognized in earnings. The accretion to par value of the 2019 Lincoln Park Note is recorded as interest expense. The Company had originally accounted for the 2019 Lincoln Park Warrants as equity-linked instruments and had not bifurcated the conversion feature in the 2019 Lincoln Park Note.
The Company also reviewed the Pinnacle Note that had a down round provision allowing for the repricing of the conversion price upon the Company’s issuance of equity securities at a price lower than the Pinnacle Note conversion price. On October 21, 2019, the Company sold shares of Common Stock in a registered public offering, at a price of $3.91 when the Pinnacle Note conversion price was $15.00. As a result, the conversion price of the Pinnacle Note was repriced to $3.91. Due to the repricing, the Company should have recorded a beneficial conversion feature on the date of the repricing and amortized the beneficial conversion feature as interest expense over the remaining life of the Pinnacle Note that matured on January 5, 2020.
In accordance with SAB No. 99, “Materiality,” and SAB No. 108, “Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements,” the Company evaluated the errors and determined that the related impact was not material to the Company’s financial statements for any prior annual or interim period, but that correcting the cumulative impact of the error would be significant to the Company’s results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2020. Accordingly, the Company revised the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets and quarterly and year to date 2019 unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations as of and for the quarterly and year to date periods ended June 30, 2019, September 30, 2019 and consolidated balance sheet and statement of operations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019, including the related notes presented herein, as applicable. The errors did not impact revenue or loss from operations in the consolidated statement of operations, or net cash used in operations reported in the consolidated statement of cash flows for any of those periods.
A summary of the revisions to previously reported financial information is as follows (as adjusted amounts have been adjusted to reflect the 1:5 reverse stock split effectuated November 27, 2020):
DOLPHIN ENTERTAINMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2020 AND 2019
DOLPHIN ENTERTAINMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2020 AND 2019
[1]
The Company is not required to and has not previously reported information on the statement of operations data for the three months ended December 31, 2019
[2]
Fair value and accretion to par value of the 2019 Lincoln Park Note.
[3]
Fair value of the 2019 Lincoln Park Warrants.
[4]
Fair value of the conversion feature of the 2019 Lincoln Park Note.
[5]
Reversal of beneficial conversion feature recorded for the 2019 Lincoln Park Note
[6]
Change in fair value of bifurcated conversion feature of 2019 Lincoln Park Note.
[7]
Change in fair value of 2019 Lincoln Park Warrant liability.
[8]
Reversal of the amortization of the beneficial conversion feature of the 2019 Lincoln Park Note offset by accretion of the 2019 Lincoln Park Note.
[9]
Unamortized discount on the beneficial conversion feature of the Pinnacle Note.
[10]
Contingent beneficial conversion feature on repricing of Pinnacle Note conversion, offset by reversal of beneficial conversion feature of the 2019 Lincoln Park Note.
[11]
Accretion of the 2019 Lincoln Park Note and $1.2 million of amortization of the beneficial conversion feature of the Pinnacle Note.
Restatement