Management has concluded that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern based upon our accumulated deficit, recurring losses and working capital deficit, as of December 31, 2020. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. In addition, we operate in industries that have been adversely affected by COVID-19 (e.g. food, hospitality and talent PR). On June 5, 2020, we sold 1.6 million shares and received proceeds in the amount of approximately $7.6 million. Management is planning to raise any necessary additional funds through additional sales of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock, debt securities, as well as available bank and non-bank financing, or a combination of such financing alternatives; however, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in raising any necessary additional capital or securing loans. Any such issuances of additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock would dilute the equity interests of our existing shareholders, perhaps substantially. In April of 2020, we received five separate loans for an aggregate amount of approximately $2.8 million under the Paycheck Protection Program which was established under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (CARES Act). Be Social, which the Company acquired on August 17, 2020, received a PPP Loan in the amount of $304,169, prior to the acquisition. The loans are unsecured and all or a portion of the loans may be forgiven upon application to the lender for certain expenditure amounts made, including payroll costs, in accordance with the requirements under the Payroll Protection Program. There is no assurance that our loans will be forgiven. If we are unable to raise additional funds from the sale of common stock, securities convertible into our common stock, debt securities, bank and non-bank financing or any combination of such financing securities, we may not be able to continue as a going concern within one year from the issuance of these consolidated financial statements.
REVENUES
For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, we derived substantially all of our revenues from our entertainment publicity and marketing segment. The entertainment publicity and marketing segment derives its revenues from providing public relations services for celebrities and musicians, entertainment and targeted content marketing for film and television series, strategic communications services for corporations and public relations, marketing services and brand strategies for hotels and restaurants. We additionally derived revenues from the content production segment primarily from the distribution of our feature films, Max Steel and Believe. The table below sets forth the percentage of total revenue derived from our two segments for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019:
Entertainment Publicity and Marketing
Our revenue is directly impacted by the retention and spending levels of existing clients and by our ability to win new clients. We believe that we have a stable client base, and we have continued to grow organically through referrals and actively soliciting new business, as well as through acquisition of new businesses within the same industry. We earn revenues primarily from the following sources: (i) celebrity talent services; (ii) content marketing services under multiyear master service agreements in exchange for fixed project-based fees; (iii) individual engagements for entertainment content marketing services for durations of generally between three and six months; (iv) strategic communications services; (v) engagements for marketing of special events such as food and wine festivals; (vi) engagement for marketing of brands; (vii) arranging strategic marketing agreements between brands and social media influencers and (viii) content productions of marketing materials on a project contract basis. For these revenue streams, we collect fees through either fixed fee monthly retainer agreements, fees based on a percentage of contracts or project-based fees.
We earn entertainment publicity and marketing revenues primarily through the following:
·
Talent - We earn fees from creating and implementing strategic communication campaigns for performers and entertainers, including Oscar, Tony and Emmy winning film, theater and television stars, directors, producers, celebrity chefs and Grammy winning recording artists. Our services in this area include ongoing strategic counsel, media relations, studio and/or network liaison work, and event and tour support.
·
Entertainment Marketing and Brand Strategy- We earn fees from providing marketing direction, public relations counsel and media strategy for entertainment content (including theatrical films, television programs, DVD and VOD releases, and online series) from all the major studios, as well as content producers ranging from individual filmmakers and creative artists to production companies, film financiers, DVD distributors, and other entities. In addition, we provide entertainment marketing services in connection with film festivals, food and wine festivals, awards campaigns, event publicity and red-carpet management. As part of our services, we offer marketing and publicity services tailored to reach diverse audiences. We also provide marketing direction targeted to the ideal consumer through a creative public relations and creative brand strategy for hotel and restaurant groups. Our clients for this type of service include major studios, streaming services, independent producers and leading hotel and restaurant groups. We expect that increased digital streaming marketing budgets at several large key clients will drive growth of revenue and profit in 42West’s Entertainment Marketing division over the next several years.
·
Strategic Communications - We earn fees by advising companies looking to create, raise or reposition their public profiles, primarily in the entertainment industry. We believe that growth in Strategic Communications division will be driven by increasing demand for these services by traditional and non-traditional media clients who are expanding their activities in the content production, branding, and consumer products PR sectors. We expect that this growth trend will continue for the next three to five years. We also help studios and filmmakers deal with controversial movies, as well as high-profile individuals address sensitive situations.
·
Creative Branding and Production - We offer clients creative branding and production services from concept creation to final delivery. Our services include brand strategy, concept and creative development, design and art direction, script and copyrighting, live action production and photography, digital development, video editing and composite, animation, audio mixing and engineering, project management and technical support. We expect that our ability to offer these services to our existing clients in the entertainment and consumer products industries, will be accretive to our revenue.
·
Digital Media Influencer Marketing Campaigns - We arrange strategic marketing agreements between brands and social media influencers, for both organic and paid campaigns. We also offer services for social media activations at events, as well as editorial work on behalf of brand clients. Our services extend beyond our own captive influencer network, and we manage custom campaigns targeting specific demographics and locations, from ideation to delivery of results reports. We expect that our relationship with social media influencers will provide us the ability to offer these services to our existing clients in the entertainment and consumer products industries and will be accretive to our revenue.
Content Production
Project Development and Related Services
We have a team that dedicates a portion of its time to identifying scripts, story treatments and novels for acquisition, development and production. The scripts can be for either digital or motion picture productions. We have acquired the rights to certain scripts that we intend to produce and release in the future, subject to obtaining financing. We have not yet determined if these projects would be produced for digital, television or theatrical distribution.
Our pipeline of feature films includes:
·
Youngblood, an updated version of the 1986 hockey classic and;
·
Sisters Before Misters, a comedy about two estranged sisters finding their way back to each other after a misunderstanding causes one of them to have to plan the other’s wedding.
·
Out of their League, a romantic comedy pitting husband versus wife in the cut-throat world of fantasy football; and
We have completed development of each of these feature films, which means that we have completed the script and can begin pre-production once financing is obtained. We are planning to fund these projects through third-party financing arrangements, domestic distribution advances, pre-sales, and location-based tax credits, and if necessary, sales of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock, debt securities or a combination of such financing alternatives; however, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the financing necessary to produce any of these feature films.
EXPENSES
Our expenses consist primarily of: (1) direct costs; (2) selling, general and administrative expenses; (3) depreciation and amortization expense; (4) legal and professional fees and (5) payroll expenses.
Direct costs include certain cost of services, as well as certain production costs, related to our entertainment publicity and marketing business. Included within direct costs are immaterial impairments for any of our content production projects.
Selling, general and administrative expenses include all overhead costs except for payroll, depreciation and amortization and legal and professional fees that are reported as a separate expense item.
Depreciation and amortization include the depreciation of our property and equipment and amortization of intangible assets and leasehold improvements.
Legal and professional fees include fees paid to our attorneys, fees for investor relations consultants, audit and accounting fees and fees for general business consultants.
Payroll expenses include wages, payroll taxes and employee benefits.
Other Income and Expenses
For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, other income and expenses consisted primarily of: (1) gain or loss on extinguishment of debt; (2) acquisition costs; (3) changes in the fair value of put rights; (4) changes in fair value of contingent consideration; (5) changes in fair value of warrants; (6) changes in fair value of convertible notes and derivative liabilities and (7) interest expense. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we also had a loss on the deconsolidation of our Max Steel variable interest entity.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to year ended December 31, 2019
Revenues
For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, our revenues were as follows:
Revenues from entertainment publicity and marketing decreased by approximately $1.0 million, for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease a result of COVID-19 and its effects on food and hospitality sector and the talent division. Government imposed orders to either reduce or completely shut down the in-restaurant service has caused our clients to either reduce or suspend the services we offer. As the production of content was halted between mid-March 2020 and July 2020, several of our talent clients requested to suspend their services during this period until the recommencement of production.
Revenues from content production increased by $0.02 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to December 31, 2019. Revenues for the content production segment are currently derived from either Max Steel or Believe, feature films that were released in 2016 and 2013, respectively, and our nearing the end of their normal revenue cycles.
On August 23, 2019, we entered into a revenue participation agreement with the lender of the prints and advertising loan and agreed to give them up $0.9 million of future domestic distribution revenue in exchange for the payment and full satisfaction of the prints and advertising loan in the amount of $0.7 million, including accrued interest, on the date of the agreement. We do not expect to receive any significant future revenues from the domestic distribution of Max Steel.
Expenses
For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, our operating expenses were as follows:
Overall expenses decreased by approximately $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease is related to the changes described below.