section_1: ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Overview
We are a leading independent entertainment marketing and premium content development company. Through our subsidiaries, 42West LLC (“42West”), The Door Marketing Group LLC (“The Door”), Shore Fire Media, Ltd (“Shore Fire”), Viewpoint Computer Animation, Inc. (“Viewpoint”) and Be Social Public Relations, LLC (“Be Social”), we provide expert strategic marketing and publicity services to many of the top brands, both individual and corporate, in the entertainment, hospitality and music industries. 42West, The Door and Shore Fire are each recognized global leaders in the PR services for the industries they serve. Viewpoint adds full-service creative branding and production capabilities to our marketing group and Be Social provides influencer marketing capabilities through its roster of highly engaged social media influencers. Dolphin’s legacy content production business, founded by our Emmy-nominated Chief Executive Officer, Bill O’Dowd, has produced multiple feature films and award-winning digital series, primarily aimed at family and young adult markets.
We were first incorporated in the State of Nevada on March 7, 1995 and domesticated in the State of Florida on December 4, 2014. Our common stock trades on The Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol “DLPN”.
Effective November 27, 2020, we amended our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation to effectuate a 1-to-5 reverse stock split reducing the number of authorized shares from 200,000,000 to 40,000,000. All shares and per share amounts discussed in this Form 10-K have been retrospectively adjusted for the reverse stock split.
We currently operate in two reportable segments: our entertainment publicity and marketing segment and our content production segment. The entertainment publicity and marketing segment is composed of 42West, The Door, Shore Fire, Viewpoint and Be Social and provides clients with diversified services, including public relations, entertainment content marketing, strategic communications, social media marketing, creative branding, and the production of promotional video content. The content production segment is composed of Dolphin Films, Inc. (“Dolphin Films”) and Dolphin Digital Studios, which produce and distribute feature films and digital content.
With respect to our entertainment publicity and marketing segment, we currently see a favorable environment for organic growth. The original content budgets of many large studios and streaming services have grown considerably the past few years, and are expected to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, the past 18 months have seen the entrance of large streaming services such as Disney+, Apple TV, Peacock (from NBCUniversal), HBO Max, Paramount+ and Discovery, all to compete with Netflix, Amazon and Hulu. We believe that the foremost differentiating factor for all of these platforms will be original programming and, consequently, it is anticipated that there will be an increase of tens of billions of dollars in programming spent across the market. We also believe that each of these original shows will need substantial public relations and marketing campaigns to drive consumer awareness of both the shows themselves and the respective platforms on which to find them.
Additionally, we have endeavored to create a “marketing super group,” combining marketing, public relations, branding, and digital production, that will serve as a platform for organic growth via the cross-selling of services among our subsidiaries. By way of example, all of our public relations companies (42West, The Door and Shore Fire) have identified the ability to create content for clients as a “must have” for public relations campaigns in today’s environment, which relies so heavily on video clips to drive social media awareness and engagement. Thus, we believe that our acquisition of Viewpoint provides a critical competitive advantage in the acquisition of new clients in the entertainment and lifestyle marketing space, and has the potential to fuel topline revenue growth as the average revenue per client increases with the cross-selling of video content creation services. Furthermore, influencer marketing campaigns are considered essential to so many consumer product earned media campaigns in today’s online marketplace, creating large cross-selling opportunities from our PR agencies for Be Social’s expertise and services.
Finally, we believe that our expanding portfolio of public relations and marketing companies will continue to attract future acquisitions. We believe that our “marketing super group” is unique in the industry, as a collection of best-in-class service providers across a variety of entertainment and lifestyle verticals. We further believe that with each new acquisition in this space, our portfolio will increase its breadth and depth of services and, therefore, be able to offer an even more compelling opportunity for other industry leaders to join, and enjoy the benefits of cross-selling to a wide variety of existing and potential clients. Thus, we believe we can continue to grow both revenues and profits through future acquisitions into our entertainment publicity and marketing segment.
Growth Opportunities and Strategies
We are focused on driving growth through the following:
Expand and grow 42West to serve more clients with a broad array of interrelated services. We believe that the launch and growth of a large number of streaming services over the past 18 months represent tremendous organic growth opportunities for 42West, due to the increase in potential new clients and a larger number of individual projects to promote.
Enhanced by Dolphin’s acquisitions of Viewpoint and Be Social, 42West has the ability to both structure influencer marketing campaigns and create promotional and marketing content for clients, critical services for entertainment content marketers in today’s digital world.
We also believe that the skills and experience of our 42West business in entertainment PR are readily transferable to related business sectors, such as video games and e-sports. The growing involvement in non-entertainment businesses by many of our existing entertainment clients has allowed 42West to establish a presence and develop expertise outside its traditional footprint. Using this as a foundation, we are now working to expand our involvement in these new areas.
We also expect to continue to grow 42West’s current business divisions. For example:
·
In the Entertainment Marketing division, several of our large key clients have announced increased movie marketing budgets over the next several years that we expect will drive growth of our revenue and profits;
·
In the Talent division, we expect to continue to drive significant growth through the hiring of additional individuals or teams whose existing books of business and talent rosters can be accretive to revenues and profits of the business; and
·
In the Strategic Communications division, we believe that growth will be driven by increasing demand for these services by traditional and non-traditional media clients over the next three to five years as they expand their activities in the content production, branding, and consumer products sectors. We believe that this growth could result in the Strategic Communications division significantly increasing its contribution to revenue and profit, as this division typically generates higher profit margins than the other 42West divisions.
Expand and grow The Door through the expansion of Consumer Products PR business. The Door’s market-leading position in both the food and hospitality verticals, with many clients which have consumer-facing products and the need for attendant marketing campaigns, has provided the Company with the requisite experience for a successful entry into the high-margin consumer products PR business with potential clients outside of the food and hospitality verticals. We plan to significantly increase the number of consumer products PR accounts at The Door. Such accounts often generate higher monthly fees and longer-term engagements than any other customer vertical.
Expand and grow Shore Fire Media to serve more clients in more genres of music and in more markets. For over 30 years, Shore Fire has been a leader in providing public relations and marketing services to a broad array of songwriters, recording artists, publishers and others within the music industry, all from its headquarters in Brooklyn. We plan to significantly expand Shore Fire’s presence in other major music markets, including Los Angeles, Nashville and Miami, which we believe will provide access to potential clients across a wide array of popular musical genres, including pop, country and Latin.
Diversify Viewpoint’s Client Base. Viewpoint is a leading creative branding agency and promotional video content producer for the television industry, with long-term clients such as HBO, Discovery Networks, Showtime and AMC. Through 42West, The Door and Shore Fire, Viewpoint can offer its best-in-class services to several new verticals, including motion picture production and distribution companies, musical artists, restaurant groups, the hospitality and travel industry and the marketers of consumer products. The ability for Viewpoint to reach clients of 42West, The Door and Shore Fire provides Viewpoint with the opportunity to diversify its client base, while allowing 42West, The Door and Shore Fire to increase their service offerings to, existing and future clients, potentially driving increased revenues.
Diversify Be Social’s Client Base. Be Social is a leading influencer marketing agency, with a specialization in the beauty, fashion and wellness industries. Through 42West, The Door and Shore Fire, Be Social can offer its services to several new verticals, including motion picture and television content, podcasts, musical artists and labels, restaurant groups, hotels and resorts, the travel industry, the gaming and e-sports industry, and the marketers of broader consumer products. The ability for Be Social to reach clients of 42West, The Door and Shore Fire provides Be Social with the opportunity to diversify its client base, while allowing 42West, The Door and Shore Fire to increase their service offerings to, existing and future clients, potentially driving increased revenues.
Opportunistically grow through complementary acquisitions. We plan to selectively pursue acquisitions to further enhance our competitive advantages, scale our revenues, and increase our profitability. Our acquisition strategy is based on identifying and acquiring companies that complement our existing entertainment publicity services businesses. We believe that complementary businesses, such as live event production companies and PR firms in other entertainment verticals, can create synergistic opportunities that may increase profits and operating cash flow.
Build a portfolio of premium film, television and digital content. We intend to grow and diversify our portfolio of film, television and digital content by capitalizing on demand for high quality digital media and film content throughout the world marketplace. We plan to balance our financial risks against the probability of commercial success for each project. We believe that our strategic focus on content and creation of innovative content distribution strategies will enhance our competitive position in the industry, ensure optimal use of our capital, build a diversified foundation for future growth and generate long-term value for our shareholders. Finally, we believe that marketing strategies that will be developed by 42West will drive our creative content, thus creating greater potential for profitability.
Given the events surrounding the global pandemic (COVID-19), we are evaluating the effects, both positive and negative, on our growth opportunities and strategies. As an example, The Door has been impacted since they operate in the hospitality industry but their consumer products division has grown. 42West has had additional opportunities in the streaming service marketing business as more films are released through these streaming services. Additionally, new acquisition opportunities may be available. We currently don’t have sufficient information to know any additional effects of the global pandemic but will continue to monitor the situation and take corrective action as necessary.
Entertainment Publicity and Marketing
42West
Through 42West, an entertainment public relations agency, we offer talent publicity, entertainment (motion picture and television) marketing and strategic communications services. Prior to its acquisition, 42West grew to become one of the largest independently-owned public relations firms in the entertainment industry, and in December 2019 (the most recent year of such rankings), 42West was ranked #4 in the annual rankings of the nation’s Power 50 PR firms by the New York Observer, the highest position held by an entertainment PR firm. As such, we believe that 42West has served, and will continue to serve, as an “acquisition magnet” for us to acquire new members of our marketing “super group,” which has the ability to provide synergistic new members with the opportunity to grow revenues and profits through 42West’s access, relationships and experience in the entertainment industry.