On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which requires all assets and liabilities arising from leases to be recognized in our consolidated balance sheets. The Company adopted this new accounting guidance effective January 1, 2019. In July 2018, the FASB added an optional transition method which we elected upon adoption of the new standard. This allowed us to recognize and measure leases existing at January 1, 2019 without restating comparative information. In addition, we elected to apply the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allows us to carry forward the historical lease classification.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at the lease commencement date. In addition to our lease agreements, we review all material new vendor arrangements for potential embedded lease obligations. The asset balance related to operating leases is presented within “right-of-use (ROU) asset” on our consolidated balance sheet. The current and noncurrent balances related to operating leases are presented as “Lease liability”, in their respective classifications, on our consolidated balance sheet.
The lease liability is recognized based on the present value of the remaining fixed lease payments discounted using our incremental borrowing rate as of January 1, 2019 for the leases in existence on the date of adoption or our incremental borrowing rate on the date of the lease for leases entered into after January 1, 2019. The ROU asset is calculated based on the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments paid to the lessor at or before the commencement date (i.e. prepaid rent) and initial direct costs incurred by us and excluding any lease incentives received from the Lessor. For operating leases, the lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The Company accounts for its lease and non-lease components as a single component, and therefore both are included in the calculation of lease liability recognized on the consolidated balance sheets.
Revenue Recognition
On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2014-09 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). Applying this guidance, we recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to our clients in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. We earn revenues primarily from the following sources: (i) celebrity talent services; (ii) content marketing services under multiyear master service agreements in exchange for fixed project-based fees; (iii) individual engagements for entertainment content marketing services for durations of generally between three and six months; (iv) strategic communications services; (v) engagements for marketing of special events such as food and wine festivals; (vi) engagement for marketing of brands; (vii) arranging strategic marketing agreements between brands and social media influencers and (viii) content productions of marketing materials on a project contract basis. For these revenue streams, we collect fees through either fixed fee monthly retainer agreements, fees based on a percentage of contracts or project-based fees.
Revenue from our entertainment publicity and marketing segment consists of fees from the performance of professional services and billings for direct costs reimbursed by clients. Fees are generally recognized on a straight-line or monthly basis, as the services are consumed by our clients, which approximates the proportional performance on such contracts. Direct costs reimbursed by clients are billed as pass-through revenue with no mark-up. We enter into contracts that provide for third-party costs. We typically act as an agent in these types of arrangements and recognize the revenue only on the fees attributable to our performance of the contract and not including the third-party costs which are not recorded on our consolidated statement of operations. Revenues from content produced for digital marketing is recognized upon satisfactory delivery to the client. We also enter into management agreements with a roster of social media influencers and are paid a percentage of the revenue earned by the social media influencer. Due to the short-term nature of these contracts, the performance obligation is typically completed and revenue is recognized in the period in which the contract originated.
Fair Value Measurements
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorized based on whether the inputs are observable in the market and the degree that the inputs are observable. Inputs refer broadly to the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions about risk. Observable inputs are based on market data obtained from sources independent of our company. Unobservable inputs reflect our own assumptions based on the best information available in the circumstances. The fair value hierarchy prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value into three broad levels, defined as follows:
Level 1
-
Inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date.
Level 2
-
Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated with observable market data.
Level 3
-
Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets and liabilities. This includes certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs. Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability that reflect management’s own assumptions about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability as of the reporting date.
We carry certain derivative financial instruments using inputs classified as “Level 3” in the fair value hierarchy on our balance sheets.
Convertible Notes and Warrants
The 2019 Lincoln Park Warrants, the 2020 Lincoln Park Warrants and the Series “I” Warrant were each determined to be a derivative liability under FASB ASC 815. Each are classified as a long-term liability on our consolidated balance sheet. They were each initially measured at fair value at time of issuance and subsequently remeasured at fair value on a recurring basis at each reporting period, with changes in fair value recognized as other income or expense in the consolidated statement of operations. The warrants were valued using a Black-Scholes simulation valuation model. The model utilized our common stock price and certain Level 3 inputs to take into account the probabilities of certain events occurring over their respective life.
We account for the issued and outstanding 2020 Fair Value Convertible Notes under the “Fair Value Option election” of ASC 825, Financial Instruments, as discussed below. The notes are each a debt financial instrument host containing embedded features and /or options which would otherwise be required to be bifurcated from the debt host and recognized as separate derivative liabilities subject to initial and subsequent periodic estimated fair value measurements under ASC 815. Notwithstanding, ASC 825-10-15-4 provides for the “fair value option” (“FVO”), to the extent not otherwise prohibited by ASC 825-10-15-5, to be afforded to financial instruments, wherein the financial instrument is initially measured at its issue-date estimated fair value and subsequently remeasured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis at each reporting period date. Further, the estimated fair value adjustment, as required by ASC 825-10-45-5, is recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (“OCI”) with respect to the portion of the fair value adjustment attributed to a change in the instrument-specific credit risk, with the remaining amount of the fair value adjustment recognized as other income (expense) in the consolidated statement of operations. With respect to our 2020 Fair Value Convertible Notes, the “other income (expense) component” is presented in a single line in the consolidated statement of operations within net income, as none of the change in fair value was attributable to instrument specific credit risk. See our accompanying consolidated financial statements Note 11 - Notes Payable, and Note 13- Fair Value Measurements, for a further discussion of such FVO election and the 2020 Fair Value Convertible Notes.
The recurring and non-recurring estimated fair value measurements are subjective and are affected by changes in inputs to the valuation models, including our common stock price, and certain Level 3 inputs, including, the assumptions regarding the estimated volatility in the value of our common stock price; our dividend yield; the likelihood and timing of future dilutive transactions, as applicable, along with the risk-free rates based on U.S. Treasury security yields. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the estimated fair values.
Put Rights
In connection with the 42West acquisition, we entered into put agreements with each of the sellers of 42West granting them the right, but not the obligation, to cause us to purchase up to an aggregate of 237,419 of their shares received as consideration for their membership interest of 42West, including the put rights on the shares earned from the earn out consideration. Based upon the results of operations of 42West during 2017, the sellers earned the additional consideration. In January of 2018, we also entered into put agreements with certain 42West employees granting them the right, but not the obligation, to cause us to purchase up to an aggregate of 28,140 of their shares received in April 2017 and in July 2018 and those earned from the earn out consideration. We have agreed to purchase the shares at $46.10 per share during certain specified exercise periods as set forth in the put agreements, up until March 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we purchased 41,486 shares of common stock and paid approximately $1.6 million cash for put rights that were exercised, including $275,000 for put rights exercised in 2019. As of December 31, 2020, we owed the sellers of 42West $560,900 for put rights that were exercised and not paid.
We use a Black-Scholes Option Pricing model, which incorporates significant inputs that are not observable in the market, and thus represents a Level 3 measurement as defined in ASC820. The unobservable inputs utilized for measuring the fair value of the put rights reflects management’s own assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the put rights. The put rights were initially measured on the date of the put agreements and are subsequently measured at each balance sheet date with changes in the fair value between balance sheet dates, being recorded as a gain or loss in the statement of operations.
Contingent Consideration
On July 5, 2018, as part of the merger agreement with the former members of The Door, we agreed to pay up to 307,692 shares of common stock at a purchase price of $16.25 and up to $2.0 million in cash if certain adjusted net income targets were met over a four-year period. If the adjusted net income targets are achieved, the contingent consideration is first paid in shares of common stock and the last $2.0 million of contingent consideration earned is paid in cash. On August 17, 2020, as part of the purchase agreement with the former member of Be Social, we agreed to pay up to $800,000 in earnout consideration, 62.5% which will be paid in cash and 37.5% which will be paid in shares of our common stock if certain specified financial performance targets are achieved during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2023.