A significant labor dispute in our clients’ industries could have a material adverse effect on our business.
An industry-wide strike or other job action by or affecting the Writers Guild, Screen Actors Guild or other major entertainment industry union could reduce the supply of original entertainment content, which would in turn reduce the demand for our talent and entertainment marketing services. An extensive work stoppage would affect feature film production as well as television and commercial production and could have a material adverse effect on our clients and the motion picture production industry in general. Contracts between entertainment industry unions and the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers, which we refer to as AMPTP, expire from time to time. The failure to finalize and ratify a new agreement with the AMPTP or the failure to enter into new commercial contracts upon expiration of the current contracts could lead to a strike or other job action. Any such severe or prolonged work stoppage could have an adverse effect on the television and/or motion picture production industries and could severely impair our clients’ prospects. Any resulting decrease in demand for our talent and entertainment marketing and other public relations services would have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations.
Clients may terminate or reduce their relationships with us on short notice.
As is customary in the industry, 42West, The Door, Shore Fire and Be Social’s agreements with their respective clients generally provide for termination by either party on relatively short notice, usually 30 days. Consequently, these clients may choose to reduce or terminate their relationships with us, on a relatively short time frame and for any reason. If a significant number of the 42West, The Door, Shore Fire or Be Social clients were to reduce the volume of business they conducted with us or terminate their relationships with us completely, this could have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations. Viewpoint’s revenue is derived on a project-by-project basis. Clients may decide to use other creative branding and production companies for their projects which would have an adverse effect upon our business and results of operations.
Revenues from our Entertainment Publicity and Marketing segment are susceptible to declines as a result of unfavorable economic conditions.
Economic downturns often severely affect the marketing services industry. Some of our corporate clients may respond to weak economic performance by reducing their marketing budgets, which are generally discretionary in nature and easier to reduce in the short-term than other expenses related to operations. In addition, economic downturns could lead to reduced public demand for varying forms of entertainment for which we are engaged to provide public relations and media strategy and promotional services. Such reduced demand for our services could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.
If our clients experience financial distress, or seek to change or delay payment terms, it could negatively affect our own financial position and results.
We have a large and diverse client base, and at any given time, one or more of our clients may experience financial difficulty, file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business. Unfavorable economic and financial conditions, such as the current events surrounding the COVID-19 global outbreak, could result in an increase in client financial difficulties that affect us. As an example, the temporary closure of restaurants and hotels due to the pandemic has adversely affected the revenues of our subsidiary, The Door. The direct impact on us included reduced revenues, write-offs of accounts receivable and expenditures billable to clients, and negatively impacted our operating cash flow.
Risks Related to Our Content Production Business
Our content production business requires a substantial investment of capital, and failure to access sufficient capital while awaiting delayed revenues will have a material adverse effect on our results of operation.
The production, acquisition and distribution of film or digital media content require significant capital. The budget for the projects we intend to produce will each require between $6 and $8 million to produce. In addition, if a distributor does not provide the funds for the distribution and marketing of our film, we will require additional capital to distribute and market the film. We estimate that distribution and marketing fees will be approximately $10,000 per theatrical screen. A significant amount of time may elapse between our expenditure of funds and the receipt of revenues from our productions. Our content production business does not have a traditional credit facility with a financial institution on which to depend for our liquidity needs, and a time lapse may require us to fund a significant portion of our capital requirements through loans and additional issuances of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock, debt securities or a combination of such financing alternatives. There can be no assurance that any additional financing will be available to us as and when required, or on terms that will be acceptable to us. Our inability to raise capital necessary to sustain our operations while awaiting delayed revenues would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations.
Our success is highly dependent on audience acceptance of our films and digital media productions, which is extremely difficult to predict and, therefore, inherently risky.
We cannot predict the economic success of any of our films because the revenue derived from the distribution of a film (which does not necessarily directly correlate with the production or distribution costs incurred) depends primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which cannot be accurately predicted. The economic success of a film also depends upon the public’s acceptance of competing films, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure-time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which can change and cannot be predicted with certainty.
The economic success of a film is largely determined by our ability to produce content and develop stories and characters that appeal to a broad audience and by the effective marketing of the film. The theatrical performance of a film is a key factor in predicting revenue from post-theatrical markets. If we are unable to accurately judge audience acceptance of our film content or to have the film effectively marketed, the commercial success of the film will be in doubt, which could result in costs not being recouped or anticipated profits not being realized. Moreover, we cannot assure you that any particular feature film will generate enough revenue to offset its distribution, fulfillment services and marketing costs, in which case we would not receive any revenues for such film from our distributors.
In addition, changing consumer tastes affect our ability to predict which digital media productions will be popular with web audiences. As we invest in various digital projects, stars and directors, it is highly likely that at least some of the digital projects in which we invest will not appeal to our target audiences. If we are unable to produce web content that appeals to our target audiences, the costs of such digital media productions could exceed revenues generated and anticipated profits may not be realized. Our failure to realize anticipated profits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
We have in the past and may, in the future, incur significant write-offs if our feature films and other projects do not perform well enough to recoup production, marketing, distribution and other costs.
We are required to amortize capitalized production costs over the expected revenue streams as we recognize revenue from our films or other projects. The amount of production costs that will be amortized each quarter depends on, among other things, how much future revenue we expect to receive from each project. Unamortized production costs are evaluated for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the capitalized production costs may be below their fair value. If estimated remaining revenue is not sufficient to recover the unamortized production costs, the unamortized production costs will be written down to fair value. In any given quarter, if we lower our previous forecast with respect to total anticipated revenue from any individual feature film or other project, we may be required to accelerate amortization or record impairment charges with respect to the unamortized costs, even if we have previously recorded impairment charges for such film or other project. For example, in 2016 and 2019, we recorded a $2 million and $0.6 million impairment, respectively, of the capitalized production costs for our feature film, Max Steel. In addition, certain GAAP guidance requires us to impair costs that have been capitalized for projects that are not set for production within three years of capitalizing the cost. In 2020 and 2019, we impaired the cost of several scripts based on this guidance. Such impairment charges have had, and in the future could have, a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition.
Our content production business is substantially dependent upon the success of a limited number of film releases and digital media productions, if any, in any given year and our inability to release any film or digital media productions or the unexpected delay or commercial failure of any one of them could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows.
Our content production business is currently substantially dependent upon the success of a limited number of film releases and digital media productions, if any, in any given year. The unexpected delay in release or commercial failure of just one of these films or digital media productions, or our inability to release any productions at all, could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows in both the year of release and in the future. Historically, feature films that are successful in the domestic theatrical market are generally also successful in the international theatrical and ancillary markets, although each film is different and there is no way to guarantee such results. If our films fail to achieve domestic box office success, their success in the international box office and ancillary markets and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Further, we can make no assurances that the historical correlation between results in the domestic box office and results in the international box office and ancillary markets will continue in the future. If we are unable to release any film or digital media productions in a given year, or if the feature films we release do not perform well in the domestic or international theatrical markets and ancillary markets, or our digital media productions do not perform as anticipated, the failure to release any productions, or the failure of any one of the productions we release, could a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows.
Delays, cost overruns, cancellation or abandonment of the completion or release of our web series or films may have an adverse effect on our business.
There are substantial financial risks relating to production, completion and release of web series and feature films. Actual costs may exceed their budgets due to factors such as labor disputes, unavailability of a star performer, equipment shortages, disputes with production teams or adverse weather conditions, any of which may cause cost overruns and delay or hamper film completion. We are typically responsible for paying all production costs in accordance with a budget and receive a fixed producer’s fee for our services plus a portion of any project income. However, to the extent that delays or cost overruns result in us not completing the web series or film within budget, there may not be enough funds left to pay us our producer’s fee, to generate any project income or complete the project at all. If this were to occur, it would significantly and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.