We conduct such due diligence with respect to our acquisitions as we deem reasonably practicable and appropriate. The objective of the due diligence process is to identify material issues and liabilities that may affect the decision to proceed with any one particular acquisition target or the consideration payable for an acquisition. We also use information revealed during the due diligence process to formulate our business and operational planning for, and our valuation of, any target company or business. While conducting due diligence and assessing a potential acquisition, we may rely on publicly available information, if any, information provided by the relevant target company to the extent such company is willing or able to provide such information and, in some circumstances, third party investigations.
There can be no assurance that the due diligence undertaken with respect to an acquisition, will reveal all relevant facts that may be necessary to evaluate such acquisition including the determination of the price we may pay for an acquisition target or to formulate a business strategy. Furthermore, the information provided during due diligence may be incomplete, inadequate or inaccurate. As part of the due diligence process, we will also make subjective judgments regarding the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of a potential target. Our due diligence investigation of a particular acquisition target may not uncover all material issues and liabilities to which we may become subject. If our due diligence investigation fails to correctly identify material issues and liabilities that may be present in a target company or business, or if we consider such material risks to be commercially acceptable relative to the opportunity, and we proceed with an acquisition, we may subsequently incur substantial impairment charges or other losses.
In addition, following an acquisition, including those already completed, we may be subject to significant, previously undisclosed liabilities of the acquired business that were not identified during due diligence. Any such liabilities could contribute to poor operational performance, undermine any attempt to restructure the acquired company or business in line with our business plan and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Losses incurred by us subsequent to completion of an acquisition may not be indemnifiable by the seller or may exceed the seller’s indemnification obligations.
As discussed above, there may be liabilities assumed in any acquisition that we did not discover or that we underestimated in the course of performing our due diligence. Although a seller generally will have indemnification obligations to us under an acquisition agreement, these obligations are usually subject to financial limitations, such as general deductibles and maximum recovery amounts, as well as time limitations. We cannot assure you that our right to indemnification from any seller will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the amount of any losses that we incur with respect to a particular acquisition. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.
We have recognized a goodwill impairment in the past and may be required to recognize additional goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges in the future.
We acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could cause an impairment of goodwill or intangibles. We review amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually. Events or changes indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include reduced future cash flow estimates, slower growth rates in industry segments in which we participate and a decline in our stock price and market capitalization. We may be required to record a significant charge in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively affecting our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we recorded approximately $1.9 million in charges for the impairment of goodwill for 42West based on a reduced cash flow estimate.
Risks Related to our Common Stock and Preferred Stock
We have recently issued, and may in the future issue, a significant amount of equity securities and, as a result, your ownership interest in our company has been, and may in the future be, substantially diluted and your investment in our common stock could suffer a material decline in value (All shares and per share amounts have been retrospectively adjusted for the 1:5 reverse stock split effectuated on November 27, 2020).
From January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2020, the number of shares of our common stock issued and outstanding has increased from 2,823,547 to 6,618,785 shares. During this period, we issued approximately 417,685 shares of our common stock as consideration for 42West, The Door, Shore Fire, Viewpoint and Be Social acquisitions. On August 14, 2019 we exchanged 8,948 put rights held by one of the sellers of 42West for 77,103 shares of common stock. We will issue 5,364 shares of our common stock for the working capital adjustment to the sellers of The Door. Furthermore, we may issue up to 307,692 shares of our common stock to the sellers of The Door if the applicable earn out financial target is achieved in the during 2021. We will issue to the Shore Fire seller the equivalent of $200,000 of our common stock at the trading stock price on second anniversary of the acquisition of Shore Fire and will issue to the Be Social seller the equivalent of $350,000 of our common stock based on the 30-day trading average on January 4, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2020, certain holders of convertible notes exercised their right to convert all or a portion of their convertible notes and we issued 1,208,955 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2020, we had outstanding a convertible note payable that as of the date of this report is still outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $500,000, which is convertible into 128,205 shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2020, we had convertible notes payable in the amount of $2,545,000 that were converted subsequent to year end into 663,155 shares of our common stock. On June 9, 2020, we issued 1,580,000 shares of our common stock in a registered direct offering at a purchase price of $5.25 per share. As a result of these past issuances and potential future issuances, your ownership interest in the Company has been, and may in the future be, substantially diluted.
The market price for our common stock has been volatile, and these issuances could cause the price of our common stock to continue to fluctuate substantially. Once restricted stock issued in either private placements or to the sellers of the companies we acquired becomes freely tradable, these shareholders may decide to sell their shares of common stock and, if our stock is thinly traded, this could have a material adverse effect on its market price.
We may need to raise additional capital and may seek to do so by conducting one or more private placements of equity securities, securities convertible into equity securities or debt securities, or through a combination of one or more of such financing alternatives. Such issuances of additional securities would further dilute the equity interests of our existing shareholders, perhaps substantially, and may further exacerbate any or all of the above risks.
The Series C Convertible Preferred Stock has super voting rights that may adversely affect our shareholders.
The Series C Convertible Preferred Stock is held by Dolphin Entertainment LLC, an entity owned by Mr. O’Dowd. Except as required by law, holders of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock will only have voting rights once the independent directors of the Board determine that an optional conversion threshold (as defined in the Series C Certificate of Designation) has occurred. On November 12, 2020, such determination by the Board was made, and the holder of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock (indirectly Mr. O’Dowd) is entitled to super voting rights of three votes for each share of common stock into which such holder’s shares of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock could then be converted. As of December 31, 2020, the Series C Preferred Stock could be converted into 3,806,188 shares of our common stock and the holder was entitled to 11,418,565 votes, which is approximately 63% of our voting securities. The holder of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock is entitled to vote together as a single class on all matters upon which common stockholders are entitled to vote. Your voting rights will be diluted as a result of these super voting rights. On November 12, 2020, we entered into a stock restriction agreement with Mr. O’Dowd that prohibits the conversion of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock into common stock unless the majority of the independent directors of the board of directors vote to remove the restriction. The stock restriction agreement will be immediately terminated upon a change of control as defined in the agreement
If we are unable to maintain compliance with Nasdaq listing requirements, our stock could be delisted, and the trading price, volume and marketability of our stock could be adversely affected.
Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. We cannot assure you, that we will be able to maintain compliance with Nasdaq’s current listing standards, or that Nasdaq will not implement additional listing standards with which we will be unable to comply. On October 17, 2019, we received a deficiency notice from Nasdaq informing us that our common stock failed to comply with the $1 minimum bid price required for continued listing on Nasdaq under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) based upon the closing bid price of the Common Stock for the 30 consecutive business days prior to the date of the notice from Nasdaq. Nasdaq normally provides an initial cure period of six months. Due to the market conditions in 2020, Nasdaq determined to toll the compliance period for the minimum bid price through June 30, 2020. As a result, we were required to regain compliance by December 28, 2020. To regain compliance, the minimum bid price of our common stock must meet or exceed $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive days at any point prior to December 28, 2020. On November 27, 2020, we effectuated a 1-to-5 reverse stock split and after ten consecutive days with a minimum bid price of at least $1.00, Nasdaq notified us that we were in compliance with the minimum bid price listing requirement.
Failure to maintain compliance with Nasdaq listing requirements could result in the delisting of our shares from Nasdaq, which could have a material adverse effect on the trading price, volume and marketability of our common stock. Furthermore, a delisting could adversely affect our ability to issue additional securities and obtain additional financing in the future or result in a loss of confidence by investors or employees.
Accounting for the put rights and contingent consideration could cause variability in the results we report. (All share and per share amounts have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the 1:5 reverse stock split effectuated on November 27, 2020)