Also, on December 3, 2019, the Board of Directors granted 250,000 shares of restricted stock to the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer and 125,000 shares of restricted stock to the former Chief Financial Officer. The former Chief Financial Officer’s shares were forfeited when he left the Company in July 2020. The President and Chief Executive Officer’s grant vests if there is a Change in Control of the Company (as defined in the 2017 Plan) on or before December 2, 2024, as long as he remains in continuous employment with the Company until the Change in Control or if he is terminated by the Company without cause within one year before the Change in Control. Any dividends declared will be accrued and paid if and when the related shares vest.
The Board of Directors also granted 39,719 voting shares of restricted stock under the 2017 Plan to members of management in December 2019. The shares vest in one-third increments on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant, in each case as long as the recipient is then employed by the Company. Any dividends declared will be accrued and paid if and when the related shares or units vest.
Following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 7, 2019, the Company granted restricted stock units with a grant date value of $60,000 to each nonemployee director who was elected, for an aggregate of 58,920 restricted stock units. Each award of restricted stock units vested at the date of the 2020 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Each non-employee director is entitled to receive a number of shares of the Company’s common stock equal to the number of vested restricted stock units, together with dividend equivalents from the date of grant, at such time as the director’s service on the board terminates for any reason.
On March 12, 2019, the Board of Directors granted 52,910 performance stock units to the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer and 13,228 performance stock units to the former Chief Financial Officer. The former Chief Financial Officer’s units were forfeited when he left the Company in July 2020. The President and Chief Executive Officer’s performance stock units vests on December 31, 2021, based on and subject to the Company’s achievement of cumulative EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization) and stock price performance goals over a three-year period, as long as he is then employed by the Company, and upon vesting will be settled in shares of our common stock. Any dividends declared will be accrued and paid if and when the related shares vest.
Restricted common shares and restricted stock units are measured at fair value on the date of grant based on the quoted price of the common stock. Such value is recognized as compensation expense over the corresponding vesting period which ranges from one to five years, based on the number of awards that vest.
The following summarizes restricted stock activity for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019: Schedule of restricted stock activity
Total stock-based compensation cost was $0.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, and $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. Total income tax benefit recognized for equity awards stock-based compensation arrangements was $0.2 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.
As of December 31, 2020, there was $0.8 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested, stock-based compensation arrangements. The cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 17 months. There are 1,631,123 shares available for future grants under the 2017 Plan at December 31, 2020.
11.Commitments and Contingencies
The Company had aggregate purchase commitments for fixed inventory quantities of approximately $32.0 million at December 31, 2020.
The Company had outstanding under the Loan Agreement letters of credit totaling $0.7 million to certain vendors as of December 31, 2020.
From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits that are brought against us in the normal course of business. We are not currently a party to any legal proceedings that we expect, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, cash flows, or results from operations.
12.Select Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)
The following table presents the Company’s unaudited quarterly results of operations for each of the last eight quarters in the period ended December 31, 2020. The unaudited information has been prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements. Schedule of unaudited quarterly results of operations
(1)This includes the loss on divestitures/HFS classification of $8,727.
13.Divestitures
Divestiture of Southern and Southwest reporting units
On December 2, 2020, the Company entered into an asset purchase agreement to dispose of our Southern reporting unit. Upon the closing of this transaction on December 31, 2020, the Company received $17.5 million in cash, net of working capital adjustments of $1.5 million. An additional $1.0 million is due from escrow and will be released one year following the close of the transaction. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recognized a pre-tax loss on divestiture of approximately $2.0 million related to the transaction in its consolidated statements of income. The loss recognized included selling costs of $0.3 million. The Company also recorded a tax benefit of $15.4 million related to this transaction.
In addition, in January 2021 the Company entered into an asset purchase agreement to sell the Southwest reporting unit, other than accounts receivable. Upon the closing of this transaction, the Company will receive approximately $5.0 million in cash, subject to estimated working capital adjustments. As of December 31, 2020, the Southwest reporting unit was classified as held for sale in the Company’s consolidated financial statements and measured at the expected sales price less estimated selling costs. The Company incurred a loss on classification of the assets held for sale of $6.7 million, which includes $0.1 million of selling costs incurred prior to year-end, and the Company ceased depreciation of these properties upon their classification as held for sale.
The following is a summary of net assets and net liabilities related to Southwest as of December 31, 2020, that were classified as held for sale: Schedule of net assets and net liabilities classified as held for sale
The Company evaluated the divestitures of the Southern and Southwest reporting units individually and in the aggregate and determined that they did not represent a strategic shift that had a major effect on the Company’s operations or financial results and did not qualify as a significant component of the Company. As a result, the divestitures were not reported as discontinued operations.
14.
Subsequent Events
Completion of Sale of Southwest
On March 12, 2021, the Company completed the sale of substantially all of the assets, other than accounts receivable of approximately $2.9 million, of its Southwest reporting unit and received $3.4 million in cash, subject to final working capital adjustments. An additional $0.8 million is due from escrow and will be released no later than one year following the close of the transaction.
Agreement and Plan of Merger
On March 25, 2021, the Company announced that it entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Omni Cable, LLC (“OmniCable”) and a subsidiary of OmniCable pursuant to which, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, the subsidiary will be merged with and into the Company, and the Company will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of OmniCable. Under the terms of the merger agreement, at the effective time of the merger each share of the Company’s common stock will be converted into the right to receive $5.30 in cash, without interest. In addition, each of the 300,461 stock-based equity awards outstanding under the Company’s stock and deferred compensation plans will be cancelled in exchange for $5.30. No consideration will be paid for stock options, all of which have exercise prices above the merger price.
The merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain closing conditions, including, among other things: (1) the adoption of the merger agreement by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Company common stock; (2) the absence of certain legal impediments preventing the completion of the merger; (3) the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the parties and the compliance of the parties with their respective covenants, subject to customary qualifications, including with respect to materiality; and (4) conditions relating to the Company’s tangible net book value and indebtedness. The Company expects the merger to be completed in the second quarter of 2021.
ITEM 9.
section_9: ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A.
section_9A: ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
In accordance with Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 and 15a-15, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2020.
Design and Evaluation of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we included a report of management’s assessment of the design and effectiveness of our internal controls as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020.
There has been no change in our internal controls over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2020 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting.
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
The Company has assessed the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020 based on criteria established by Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (“COSO Framework”). The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting.
Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of the inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate.
The Company’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting included testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of its internal controls. In management’s opinion, the Company has maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in the COSO Framework.
/s/ James L. Pokluda III
/s/ Eric W. Davis
James L. Pokluda III
Eric W. Davis
President and Chief Executive Officer
Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer
and Secretary (Chief Accounting Officer)
ITEM 9B.
section_9B: ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION
None.
PART III
ITEM 10.