The Company’s indefinite lived intangible assets consist of tradenames with a balance of approximately $2.1 million at December 31, 2020. As described in Notes 1 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements, the tradenames are carried at acquisition fair value net of any impairment charges recognized. The Company tests indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually on October 1, or more frequently whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that they may be impaired. To estimate the fair value of the tradenames, the Company utilizes the relief from royalty method.
The principal consideration for our determination that performing procedures relating to the impairment assessments of the tradenames is a critical audit matter was due to the subjective nature of the assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the tradenames. In particular, the fair value estimate was sensitive to significant assumptions, such as forecasted revenue growth rates, terminal period revenue growth rate, discount rate and royalty rate, which are affected by expectations about future market or economic conditions, including uncertainty resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic.
To test the estimated fair value of the Company’s tradenames, with the support of our internal valuation specialists, we performed audit procedures that included, among others, assessing the valuation methodology and testing the significant assumptions discussed above and the underlying data used by the Company in its analysis. We also compared the significant assumptions used by management to current industry and economic trends.
We have served as the Company's auditor since 2020.
/s/ BKD, LLP
Houston, Texas
March 25, 2021
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Houston Wire & Cable Company
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Houston Wire & Cable Company (the Company) as of December 31, 2019, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the consolidated financial statements). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures include examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company’s auditor from 1997 to 2020.
Houston, Texas
March 13, 2020
Houston Wire & Cable Company
Consolidated Balance Sheets
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Houston Wire & Cable Company
Consolidated Statements of Operations
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Houston Wire & Cable Company
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Houston Wire & Cable Company
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Houston Wire & Cable Company
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
1.Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Description of Business
Houston Wire & Cable Company (the “Company”), through its wholly owned subsidiaries, provides industrial products to the U.S. market through nineteen locations in thirteen states throughout the United States. In December 2020, the Company completed the sale of Southern Wire (“Southern”) to Southern Rigging Companies, LLC (“Southern Rigging”) for $17.5 million, net of the final working capital adjustment, and was negotiating an agreement for the sale of substantially all of the assets of Southwest Wire Rope (“Southwest”) to Southern Rigging. Accordingly, Southwest is classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2020. (See Note 13) The Company has no other business activity.
Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and have been prepared following accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) and the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The financial statements include all normal and recurring adjustments that are necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and operating results. All significant inter-company balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. The most significant estimates are those relating to the allowance for doubtful accounts, the refund liability, the inventory obsolescence reserve, vendor rebates, the realization of deferred tax assets and the valuation of goodwill and indefinite-lived assets. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions used for the preparation of the financial statements.
Accounts Receivable
Accounts receivable consists primarily of receivables from customers, less an allowance for doubtful accounts of $0.3 million at December 31, 2020 and $0.2 million at December 31, 2019. Consistent with industry practices, the Company requires payment frommost customers within 30-60 days of the invoice date. The Company has an estimation procedure, based on historical data and recent changes in the aging of its receivables, that it uses to record an allowance. The Company reviews delinquent accounts, typically over 90 days, and writes-off balances, as appropriate, after collection efforts have been exhausted. The Company has no contractual repurchase arrangements with its customers. Credit losses have been within management’s expectations.
Inventories
Inventories are carried at the lower of cost, using the average cost method, and net realizable value and consist primarily of goods purchased for resale, less a reserve for obsolescence and unusable items and unamortized vendor rebates. The reserve for inventory is based upon a number of factors, including the experience of the purchasing and sales departments, age of the inventory, new product offerings, and other factors. The reserve for inventory may periodically require adjustment as the factors identified above change.
Vendor Rebates
Under many of the Company’s arrangements with its vendors, the Company receives a rebate of a specified amount of consideration, payable when the Company achieves any of a number of measures, generally related to the volume level of purchases from the vendors. The Company accounts for such rebates as a reduction of the prices of the vendors’ products and therefore as a reduction of inventory until it sells the products, at which time such rebates reduce cost of sales in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Throughout the year, the Company estimates the amount of the rebates earned based on purchases to date relative to the total purchase levels expected to be achieved during the rebate period. At year end, the Company recalculates the rebates earned based on actual purchases made.
Property and Equipment
The Company provides for depreciation on a straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives:
Buildings
25 to 30 years
Machinery and equipment
3 to 10 years
Leasehold improvements are depreciated over their estimated life or the term of the lease, whichever is shorter.
Total depreciation expense was approximately $1.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, and $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the amount paid to acquire businesses over the estimated fair value of tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets acquired, less liabilities assumed. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires management’s judgment and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash flows, discount rates and asset lives among other items. At December 31, 2020, the goodwill balance was $9.8 million, representing 6.3% of the Company’s total assets.
The Company conducts impairment testing for goodwill annually in the fourth quarter of its fiscal year and more frequently, on an interim basis, when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit may have declined below its carrying value. Events or circumstances which could indicate a probable impairment include, but are not limited to, financial performance, industry and market conditions, macroeconomic conditions, reporting unit-specific events, historical results of goodwill impairment testing and the timing of the last performance of a quantitative assessment.
The Company tests goodwill at the reporting unit level, which is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment that constitutes a business for which financial information is available and is regularly reviewed by management. The Company determined that, in 2020, it had four reporting units for this purpose. At December 31, 2020, the Company only had three reporting units due to the sale of Southern. Before testing goodwill, the Company considers whether or not to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount and whether an impairment test is required. If as a result of the qualitative assessment, the Company determines that an impairment test is required, or alternatively, if the Company elects to forego the qualitative assessment, the Company performs a quantitative assessment and records an impairment to goodwill to the extent the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. See Note 4 for more details.
Intangibles
Intangible assets, consist of customer relationships and tradenames from the acquisition of Southwest and Southern in 2010 and the acquisition of Vertex in 2016, as well as internal-use software acquired in 2020. The Southern intangible assets were written off at December 31, 2020 in connection with the sale. The customer relationships and internal-use software are amortized over 9 and 3 year useful lives, respectively. If events or circumstances were to indicate that any of the Company’s definite-lived intangible assets might be impaired, the Company would assess recoverability based on the estimated undiscounted future cash flows to be generated from the applicable intangible asset. If the undiscounted cash flows were less than the carrying value, then the intangible assets would be written down to their fair value. Tradenames have an indefinite life and are not being amortized and are tested for impairment on an annual basis. See Note 4 for more details.
Leases