section_1: ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Overview
We are a provider of industrial products including electrical wire and cable, industrial fasteners, hardware and related services to the U.S. market. We sell electrical products through wholesale electrical distributors and fastener products through industrial distributors. As of December 31, 2020, we also sold mechanical wire and cable, fabricated steel wire rope and synthetic lifting and hardware products. We provide our customers with a single-source solution by offering a large selection of in-stock items, exceptional customer service and high levels of product expertise.
Our wide product selection and specialized services support our position in the supply chain between manufacturers and the customer. The breadth and depth of wire and cable, fasteners and related hardware that we offer requires significant warehousing resources and a large number of SKUs (stock-keeping units). While manufacturers may have the space and capabilities to maintain a large supply of inventory, we do not believe that any single manufacturer has the breadth and depth of product that we offer. More importantly, manufacturers historically have not offered the services that our customers need, such as complimentary custom cutting, cable coiling, paralleling, bundling, striping, cable management for large capital projects, and same day shipment, and do not have multiple distribution centers across the nation.
Our Cable Management Program addresses our customers’ requirement for sophisticated and efficient just-in-time product management for large capital projects. This program entails purchasing and storing dedicated inventory so our customers have immediate product availability for the duration of their projects. Advantages of this program include extra pre-allocated safety stock, firm pricing, zero cable surplus and just-in-time delivery. Used on large construction and capital expansion projects, our Cable Management Program combines the expertise of our cable specialists with dedicated project inventory and superior logistics to allow complex projects to be completed on time, within budget and with minimal residual waste.
History
We were founded in 1975 and have a long history of exceptional customer service, broad product selection and high levels of product expertise. In 1987, we completed our first initial public offering and were subsequently purchased in 1989 by ALLTEL Corporation and in 1997 by investment funds affiliated with Code, Hennessy & Simmons LLC. In 2006, we completed our second initial public offering. In 2010, we purchased Southwest Wire Rope LP (“Southwest”), its general partner Southwest Wire Rope GP LLC and its wholly owned subsidiary, Southern Wire (“Southern”), and subsequently merged the acquired businesses into our operating subsidiary. In 2016, we acquired Vertex Corporate Holdings, Inc., and its subsidiaries (“Vertex”) from DXP Enterprises. Vertex is a master distributor of industrial fasteners, and this acquisition expanded our product offerings to the industrial marketplace that purchases our wire and cable products. In December 2020, we completed the sale of substantially all of the assets of Southern, and in March 2021, we completed the sale of substantially all of the assets of Southwest (other than Southwest accounts receivable), to Southern Rigging Companies, LLC.
Products
We offer products in most categories of electrical wire and cable, including: continuous and interlocked armor cable; control and power cable; electronic wire and cable; flexible and portable cord; instrumentation and thermocouple cable; lead and high temperature cable; medium voltage cable; premise and category wire and cable, primary and secondary aluminum distribution cable, as well as hardware and corrosion resistant products including inch and metric bolts, screws, nuts, washers, rivets and hose clamps. We also offer private branded products, including our proprietary brand LifeGuard, a low-smoke, zero-halogen cable. Our products are used in repair and replacement work, also referred to as Maintenance, Repair and Operations ("MRO"), and related projects, larger-scale projects in the utility, industrial and infrastructure markets and a diverse range of industrial applications including communications, energy, engineering and construction, general manufacturing, marine construction and marine transportation, mining, infrastructure, oilfield services, petrochemical, transportation, utility, wastewater treatment and food and beverage.
Targeted Markets
Our business is driven, in part, by the strength, growth prospects and activity in the end-markets in which our products are used, which are primarily in the continental United States, where we target the utility, industrial and infrastructure markets.
Industrial Market. The industrial market is one of the largest segments of the U.S. economy and is comprised of a diverse base of manufacturing and production companies. The largest driver of our success in this market results from the level of U.S. investment in upstream, midstream and downstream oil and gas exploration, transportation and production. We provide a wide variety of products specifically designed for use in manufacturing, metal/mineral, and oil and gas markets.
Utility Market. The utility market includes large investor-owned utilities, rural cooperatives and municipal power authorities. We are not a significant distributor of power lines used for the transmission of electricity but have products in our portfolio that are used in this sector. We sell our core products for the construction of power plants and the related pollution control equipment used to comply with environmental standards as well as plant modernizations implemented to extend the life of power generation facilities. Our customers utilize our cable management services to supply the wire and cable required in the construction of new power plants and upgrading of existing power plants.
Infrastructure Market. Investments in the development, construction and maintenance of infrastructure markets (including commercial buildings, education and health care; air, ground and rail transportation; telecommunications, and wastewater) are opportunities for our product and service offerings.
Distribution Logistics
Our national distribution presence and value-added services make us an essential partner in the supply chain for our suppliers, customers and end users. We have successfully expanded our business from the original location in Houston, Texas to 19 locations nationwide, which includes two third-party logistics providers. Our standard practice is to process customers' orders the same day they are received. Our strategically located distribution centers generally allow for ground delivery nationwide within 24 hours of shipment. Orders are delivered through a variety of distribution methods, including less-than-truck-load, truck-load, air or parcel service providers, direct from supplier, cross-dock shipments and customer pick-up. Freight costs are typically borne by our customers. Due to our shipment volume, we have preferred pricing relationships with our contract carriers.
Customers
During 2020, we served over 8,500 customers, shipping approximately 41,000 SKUs to approximately 14,000 customer locations nationwide. No customer represented 10% or more of our 2020 sales.
Suppliers
We obtain products from leading suppliers and believe we have strong relationships with our top suppliers. Starting in mid-2020, we reduced our purchases from one of our top suppliers to a single product line. We source a portion of our products from offshore. While alternative sources are available for the vast majority of our products, we have strategically concentrated our purchases with our top suppliers in order to maximize product quality, delivery dependability, purchasing efficiencies, and vendor rebates. As a result, in 2020, approximately 55% of our purchases came from ten suppliers. We do not believe we are dependent on any one supplier for any of the industrial products that we sell.
Sales
We market our products and related services through an inside sales force situated in our regional offices, a field sales force focused on key geographic markets, and regional sales agencies. By operating under a decentralized structure, region managers are able to adapt quickly to market-specific occurrences, allowing us to compete effectively with local competitors. We believe the knowledge, experience and tenure of our sales force are critical to serving our fragmented and diverse customer and end-user base.
Competition
The industrial products market remains very competitive and fragmented, with several hundred electrical wire and cable, and fastener competitors serving this market. The product offerings and levels of service from the other providers of product with which we compete vary widely at the national, regional or local levels. In addition to the direct competition with other product providers, we also face, on a varying basis, competitors that sell products directly or through multiple distribution channels to end-users or other resellers.
In the markets that we sell our industrial products, competition is primarily based on product line breadth, quality, product availability, service capabilities and price.
Employees
At December 31, 2020, we had 338 employees. Our sales and marketing staff accounted for 152 employees, including 25 field sales personnel and 94 inside sales and technical support personnel. We believe that our employee relations are good.
Website Access
We maintain an internet website at www.houwire.com. We make available, under the “Investor Relations” tab on our website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports, as well as proxy and information statements, as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Information contained on our website is not part of, and should not be construed as being incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Government Regulation
We are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local agencies. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with existing applicable statutes and regulations affecting environmental issues and our employment, workplace health and workplace safety practices.
ITEM 1A.
section_1A: ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business, because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. As a result of the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Industry and General Economic Risks
The COVID-19 pandemic, efforts to mitigate or disrupt the pandemic and the related weak, or weakening of, economic conditions have had a negative impact on our business, and the duration and extent of the pandemic could prolong or increase the adverse impact.
We depend on continued demand from our customers to purchase our products and services and on our customers’ ability to pay. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has caused a slowdown of economic activity around the world, disruptions in global supply chains and significant volatility and disruption of financial markets, and we expect these impacts may continue for the foreseeable future. The COVID-19 pandemic has had a particularly adverse impact on the oil and gas industry, which is one of our most important end-markets. A dramatic reduction in oil and gas prices has led to reduced investment in upstream, midstream and downstream oil and gas exploration, transportation and production and lessened the demand for our products and services.