Our primary capital needs are for working capital obligations, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. Our primary sources of working capital are cash from operations supplemented by bank borrowings.
Liquidity is defined as the ability to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet the current need for cash. We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating activities. Significant factors which could affect liquidity include the following:
• the adequacy of available bank lines of credit;
• cash flows generated from operating activities;
• capital expenditures;
• acquisitions; and
• the ability to attract long-term capital with satisfactory terms
Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2020 and 2019
Our net cash provided by operating activities was $36.9 million in 2020 compared to net cash used in operating activities of $5.6 million in 2019. We had a net loss of $12.6 million in 2020 compared to net income of $2.6 million in 2019.
Changes in our operating assets and liabilities resulted in cash provided by operating activities of $33.4 million in 2020. The majority of the change was due to decreases in inventories of $36.3 million, primarily due to efforts to reduce debt, decreases in accounts receivable of $13.6 million due to decreased sales. The main uses of cash were a decrease in accrued and other liabilities of $9.6 million, a decrease in trade accounts payable of $7.2 million as a result of the decrease in inventory, and lease payments of $3.6 million.
Net cash provided by investing activities was $14.7 million in 2020 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $2.4 million in 2019. The net cash provided by was primarily due to the sale of the Southern reporting unit in December 2020.
Net cash used in financing activities was $55.6 million in 2020 compared to cash provided by financing activities of $10.7 million in 2019. Net payments on the revolver of $60.9 million were the primary uses of cash in 2020, offset by the Paycheck Protection Plan loan of $6.2 million received in the second quarter of 2020.
Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2019 and 2018
Our net cash used in operating activities was $5.6 million in 2019 compared to cash provided by operating activities of $5.3 million in 2018. We had net income of $2.6 million in 2019 compared to $8.6 million in 2018.
Changes in our operating assets and liabilities resulted in cash used in operating activities of $19.3 million in 2019. The majority of the change was due to increased inventories of $20.3 million and lease payments of $6.2 million. Partially offsetting these uses of cash was the increase of accounts payable of $2.6 million, increase in accrued liabilities of $2.4 million and decrease in accounts receivable of $2.6 million.
Net cash used in investing activities was $2.4 million in 2019 compared to $1.5 million in 2018. The increase was primarily due to expenditures for the computer system upgrade and conversion.
Net cash provided by financing activities was $10.7 million in 2019 compared to cash used in financing activities of $2.5 million in 2018. Net borrowings under our revolver of $12.2 million and the purchase of treasury stock of $1.2 million were the main components of financing activities in 2019.
Indebtedness
Our principal source of liquidity at December 31, 2020 was working capital of $91.4 million compared to $138.5 million at December 31, 2019. We also had available borrowing capacity of approximately $47.5 million at December 31, 2020 and 22.8 million at December 31, 2019 under our loan agreement.
We believe that we will have adequate availability of capital to fund our present operations, meet our commitments on our existing debt, and fund anticipated growth over the next twelve months, including expansion in existing and targeted market areas. We continually seek potential acquisitions and from time to time hold discussions with acquisition candidates. If suitable acquisition opportunities or working capital needs arise that would require additional financing, we believe that our financial position and earnings history provide a solid base for obtaining additional financing resources at competitive rates and terms. Additionally, based on market conditions, we may decide to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock to raise funds.
Loan and Security Agreement
HWC Wire & Cable Company, Vertex, and Bank of America, N.A., as agent and lender, are parties to the Fourth Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”), as amended on December 10, 2019. The Loan Agreement provides a $115 million revolving credit facility and expires on March 12, 2024. Under certain circumstances we may request an increase in the commitment by an additional $50 million. Borrowings under the Loan Agreement bear interest at the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate plus 100 to 150 basis points based on availability, if a LIBOR loan, or at a fluctuating rate equal to the greatest of the agent’s prime rate, the federal funds rate plus 50 basis points, or LIBOR for a 30-day interest period plus 150 basis points, if a base rate loan. The unused commitment fee is 25 basis points. Availability under the Loan Agreement is limited to a borrowing base equal to 85% of the value of eligible accounts receivable, plus the lesser of 70% of the value of eligible inventory or 90% of the net orderly liquidation value percentage of the value of eligible inventory, in each case less certain reserves. The Loan Agreement is secured by substantially all of our property, other than real estate.
Covenants in the Loan Agreement require us to maintain a specified minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, unless certain availability levels exist. Repaid amounts can be re-borrowed subject to the borrowing base. As of December 31, 2020, we met the availability-based covenant.
On May 4, 2020, we received a $6.2 million Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”) loan from Bank of America (“Lender”), funded under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”), pursuant to a Promissory Note issued by the Company to Lender. We used the funds to pay payroll related expenses as well as rent expenses, as allowed by the terms of the loan. We have applied for loan forgiveness and believe we will achieve 90-95% forgiveness. Any portion of the loan that is not forgiven will be due on May 4, 2022.
Capital Expenditures
We made capital expenditures of $1.1 million, $2.4 million and $1.5 million in the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
We have no off-balance sheet arrangements.
Financial Derivatives
We have no financial derivatives.
Climate Risk
Our operations are subject to inclement weather conditions, which could potentially be related to climate change, including hurricanes, earthquakes and abnormal weather events. Our previous experience from these events has had a minimal effect on our operations.
Factors Affecting Future Results
This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements that may be considered forward-looking. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as "aim," "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "project," "should," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result," "would" and other words and terms of similar meaning in conjunction with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. You should read statements that contain these words carefully, because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial position or state other "forward-looking" information. Actual results could differ materially from the results indicated by these statements, because the realization of those results is subject to many risks and uncertainties. Some of these risks and uncertainties are discussed in greater detail under Item 1A, "Risk Factors."
All forward-looking statements are based on current management expectations and speak only as of the date of this filing. Except as required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the SEC, we do not have any intention, and do not undertake, to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of this Form 10-K.
ITEM 7A.
section_7A: ITEM 7A. - Not applicable and has been omitted.
ITEM 8.
section_8: ITEM 8. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Houston Wire & Cable Company
Index to consolidated financial statements
Page
Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms
and
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders, Board of Directors and Audit Committee
Houston Wire & Cable Company
Houston, Texas
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Houston Wire & Cable Company (the "Company") as of December 31, 2020, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2020, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year ended December31, 2020, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audit.
We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) ("PCAOB") and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of our audit we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
Our audit included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures include examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audit also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audit provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.
Tradename Impairment Assessment