The COVID-19 pandemic has spread throughout the United States and the countries in which our offshore suppliers are located. Governments in affected regions have implemented safety precautions which include quarantines, travel restrictions, business closures, cancellations of public gatherings and other measures as they deem necessary. Many organizations and individuals, including our Company and our employees are taking additional steps to avoid or reduce infection, including limiting travel and working remotely. We continue to monitor our operations and government recommendations and have made modifications to our normal operations because of the pandemic, including requiring most of our nonessential employees to work remotely. We have maintained a substantial portion of our operational capacity at our warehouses across the continental United States and have instituted several health and safety protocols and procedures to safeguard our employees.
The rapid development and uncertainty of the COVID-19 pandemic precludes any prediction as to the ultimate effect of the COVID-19 outbreak on our business. However, the outbreak has had an adverse impact on our business, including reductions in the demand for our products, especially from the oil and gas market. In response, we applied for and received funds under the Paycheck Protection Program and have implemented several cost savings measures which included furloughing employees, reducing headcount, temporary payroll reductions, and other actions to decrease corporate and non-critical expenses. These cost savings measures, which began to have an impact in the latter part of the second quarter, resulted in additional savings for the balance of the year. While we cannot reasonably estimate the length or severity of this pandemic, we currently anticipate an adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated cash flows at least through the first quarter of 2021.
Sales
Our primary source of revenue is the sale of industrial products based upon purchase orders or contracts with customers, as well as billing for freight charges. Revenue is recognized at a point in time once we have determined that the customer has obtained control over the product. Control is typically deemed to have been transferred to the customer when the product is shipped or delivered (either by customer pickup or through common carrier). Sales incentives earned by customers are accrued in the same month as the shipment is invoiced and are accounted for as a reduction in sales.
Cost of Sales
Cost of sales consists primarily of the average cost of the industrial products that we sell. We also incur shipping and handling costs in the normal course of business. Cost of sales also reflects cash discounts for prompt payment to vendors and vendor rebates generally related to annual purchase targets, as well as inventory obsolescence charges.
Operating Expenses
Operating expenses include all expenses, excluding freight, incurred to receive, sell and ship product and administer the operations of the Company.
Salaries and Commissions. Salary expense includes the base compensation, and any overtime earned by hourly personnel, for all sales, administrative and warehouse employees and stock compensation expense for options and restricted stock granted to employees. Commission expense is earned by inside sales personnel based on gross profit dollars generated, by field sales personnel from generating sales and meeting various objectives, by sales, national and marketing managers for driving the sales process, by region managers based on the profitability of their branches and by corporate managers based primarily on our profitability and also on other operating metrics.
Other Operating Expenses. Other operating expenses include all payroll taxes, health insurance, travel expenses, public company expenses, advertising, management information system expenses, facility rent and all distribution expenses such as packaging, reels, and repair and maintenance of equipment and facilities.
Depreciation and Amortization. We incur depreciation expense on costs related to capitalized property and equipment on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which range from three to thirty years. We incur amortization expense on leasehold improvements and finance leases over the shorter of the lease term or the life of the related asset and on intangible assets over the estimated life of the asset.
Interest Expense
Interest expense consists primarily of interest we incur on our debt.
Results of Operations
The following discussion compares our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018.
The following table shows, for the periods indicated, information derived from our consolidated statements of operations, expressed as a percentage of sales for the period presented.
Note: Due to rounding, percentages may not add up to total operating expenses, operating income (loss), income (loss) before income taxes or net income (loss).
Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2020 and 2019
Sales
Our sales in 2020 decreased $52.3 million or 15.5% from 2019. The decrease in sales was primarily due to the decline in the oil and gas market, in addition to reduced market demand, both as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We estimate sales for our project business, which targets end markets for Environmental Compliance, Engineering & Construction, Industrials, Utility Power Generation, and Mechanical Wire Rope, decreased 10%, while Maintenance, Repair, and Operations (MRO) sales decreased 17%, as compared to 2019.
Gross Profit
Gross profit decreased $16.9 million or 21.1% from 2019. The decrease in gross profit was primarily due to decreased sales from the decline in the oil and gas market caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of sales) decreased from 23.6% in 2019 to 22.0% in 2020 due to the $0.6 million inventory returned under a one-time agreement with a vendor in the second quarter of 2020, as well as lower rebates from vendors and reduced prompt pay discounts.
Operating Expenses
Note: Due to rounding, numbers may not add up to total operating expenses.
Salaries and Commissions. Salaries and commissions decreased $4.2 million or 11.2% due to expense management necessitated by the decrease in oil and gas prices and the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as lower commissions resulting from the decrease in sales. Reduced full-time headcount, reduced temporary labor and partial-year salary reductions all contributed to the lower salaries and commissions expense.
Other Operating Expenses. Other operating expenses decreased $4.3 million or 13.1% also due to expense management in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, primarily from lower travel and entertainment, advertising, office and warehouse supply expenses. In the third quarter of 2019, we recorded a $2.2 million early lease termination liability related to Vertex’s former Massachusetts facility.
Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and amortization increased to$3.4 million in 2020 from $2.5 million in 2019 primarily due to depreciation on right-of-use assets and amortization of internal-use software acquired in the third quarter of 2020.
Impairment Charge. We recorded non-cash impairment charges in 2020 and 2019 with respect to tradenames at our Southwest and Vertex reporting units. (See Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements)
Loss on divestiture/HFS classification. In December 2020, we completed the sale of Southern to Southern Rigging Companies, LLC (“Southern Rigging”) for $17.5 million, net of the final working capital adjustment. In January 2021, we entered into an agreement to sell Southwest to Southern Rigging for $5.0 million, subject to a working capital adjustment, and as such, have classified Southwest as held for sale as of December 31, 2020. In connection with the divestiture of Southern and the classification of Southwest as held for sale, we recorded non-cash losses of $8.7 million in December 2020. (See Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements)
Interest Expense
Interest expense decreased 38.3% from $3.1 million in 2019 to $1.9 million in 2020 due to lower average debt and a decrease in interest rates. Average debt was $72.0 million in 2020 compared to $76.6 million in 2019. The average effective interest rate decreased from 3.8% in 2019 to 2.3% in 2020.
Income Tax
The income tax benefit of $0.6 million in 2020 decreased from the income tax expense of $1.3 million in 2019. The effective income tax rate was 4.8% in 2020 compared to 33.3% in 2019. The effective tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as nondeductible expenses, share-based compensation and state taxes. In addition, the effective tax rate for 2020 included a benefit of 13.9% for the sale of Southern.
Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2019 and 2018
Sales
Our sales in 2019 decreased $18.6 million or 5.2% from 2018. The decrease in sales was primarily due to reduced industrial market demand in oil and gas geographies, reduced demand for fasteners and reduced availability of inventory due to supply chain disruptions resulting from the on-going trade discussions between the United States and China. We estimate sales for our project business, which targets end markets for Environmental Compliance, Engineering & Construction, Industrials, Utility Power Generation, and Mechanical Wire Rope, decreased 5%, while MRO sales decreased 6%, as compared to 2018. When adjusted for fluctuations in commodity prices of approximately 2%, we estimate that MRO and project business sales decreased by 4% and 3%, respectively.
Gross Profit
Gross profit decreased $5.3 million or 6.2% from 2018. The decrease in gross profit was primarily due to decreased sales. Gross margin was near flat at 23.6% in 2019 compared to 23.9% in 2018.
Operating Expenses
Note: Due to rounding, numbers may not add up to total operating expenses.
Salaries and Commissions. Salaries and commissions decreased $0.9 million or 2.4% primarily due to lower commissions resulting from the reduction in sales and gross profit.
Other Operating Expenses. Other operating expenses increased $2.3 million or 7.4% primarily due to the $2.2 million early termination liability related to Vertex’s Massachusetts facility lease and additional warehouse distribution expenses resulting from the closure of this facility and two additional warehouse moves in the fourth quarter.
Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and amortization increased slightly to $2.5 million in 2019 from $2.2 million in 2018 primarily due to depreciation on right-of-use assets from the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 842.
Impairment Charge. We recorded non-cash impairment charges in 2019 and 2018 with respect to tradenames at our Southwest reporting unit. (See Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements)
Operating expenses as a percentage of sales increased to 21.6% in 2019 from 20.0% in 2018, as operating expenses increased combined with a reduction in sales.
Interest Expense
Interest expense increased 5.2% to $3.1 million in 2019 from $2.9 million in 2018 due to higher debt to fund increased working capital and the payment of the early termination liability discussed above. Average debt was $76.6 million in 2019 compared to $76.8 million in 2018. The average effective interest rate increased slightly to 3.8% in 2019 from 3.7% in 2018.
Income Tax
Income tax expense decreased 45.9% to $1.3 million in 2019 from $2.4 million in 2018. The effective income tax rate was 33.3% in 2019 compared to 21.4% in 2018. The effective tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as nondeductible expenses, share -based compensation and state taxes. In addition, the effective tax rate for 2018 included a benefit of (9.5%) for the release of the valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets.
Impact of Inflation and Commodity Prices
Our results of operations are affected by changes in the inflation rate and commodity prices. Moreover, because copper, steel, aluminum, nickel and petrochemical products are components of the industrial products we sell, fluctuations in the costs of these and other commodities have historically affected our operating results. To the extent commodity prices decline, the net realizable value of our existing inventory could also decline, and our gross profit can be adversely affected because of either reduced selling prices or lower of cost or net realizable value adjustments in the carrying value of our inventory. If we turn our inventory approximately three times a year, the impact of changes in commodity prices in any particular quarter would primarily affect the results of the succeeding two calendar quarters. If we are unable to pass on to our customers future cost increases due to inflation or rising commodity prices, our operating results could be adversely affected.
Liquidity and Capital Resources