We have identified the following accounting policies as those that require us to make the most subjective or complex judgments in order to fairly present our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Actual results in these areas could differ materially from management’s estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. Consistent with industry practices, we require payment from most customers within 30-60 days of the invoice date. We have an estimation procedure, based on historical data and recent changes in the aging of the receivables, that we use to record an allowance. A 20% change in our estimate at December 31,2020 would have resulted in a change in income before income taxes of less than $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020.
Refund Liability
We estimate the gross profit impact of returns and allowances for previously recorded sales. This liability is calculated on historical and statistical returns and allowances data and adjusted as trends in the variables change. A 20% change in our estimate at December 31, 2020 would have resulted in a change in income before income taxes of approximately $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020.
Vendor Rebates
Some of our arrangements with our vendors entitle us to receive a rebate of a specified amount when we achieve any of a number of measures, generally related to the volume of purchases from the vendor. We account for such rebates as a reduction of the prices of the vendor’s products and therefore as a reduction of inventory until we sell the product, at which time such rebates reduce cost of sales. Throughout the year, we estimate the amount of the rebates earned based on purchases to date relative to the total purchase levels expected to be achieved during the rebate period. We continually revise these estimates to reflect rebates expected to be earned based on actual purchase levels and forecasted purchase volumes for the remainder of the rebate period. A 20% change in our estimate of total rebates earned during 2020 would have resulted in a change in loss before income taxes of $0.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020.
Inventory Reserves
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost, using the average cost method, or net realizable value. We continually monitor our inventory levels at each of our distribution centers. Our reserve for inventory is based on the age of the inventory, movements of our inventory over the prior twelve months and the experience of our purchasing and sales departments in estimating demand for the product in the succeeding year. Our inventories are generally not susceptible to technological obsolescence. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, inventory reserves totaled $3.1 million and $3.6 million, respectively. A 20% change in our inventory reserve estimate at December 31, 2020 would have resulted in a change in income before income taxes of $0.6 million.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the amount we paid to acquire businesses over the estimated fair value of tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets acquired, less liabilities assumed. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires management’s judgment and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash flows, discount rates and asset lives among other items. At December 31, 2020, our goodwill balance was $9.8 million, representing 6.2% of our total assets. In connection with the sale of Southern, we wrote-off $12.5 million of goodwill at December 31, 2020.
We conduct impairment testing for goodwill annually in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year and more frequently, on an interim basis, when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit may have declined below its carrying value. Events or circumstances which could indicate a probable impairment include, but are not limited to, financial performance, industry and market conditions, macroeconomic conditions, reporting unit-specific events, historical results of goodwill impairment testing and the timing of the last performance of a quantitative assessment.
We test goodwill at the reporting unit level, which is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment that constitutes a business for which financial information is available and is regularly reviewed by management. We have determined that, in 2020, we had four reporting units for this purpose. At December 31, 2020, we only had three reporting units due to the sale of Southern. Before testing goodwill, we consider whether or not to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount and whether an impairment test is required.
The goodwill impairment test consists of assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. We may bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the quantitative goodwill impairment test. The quantitative goodwill impairment test, used to identify both the existence of impairment and the amount of impairment loss, compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
When performing goodwill impairment testing, the fair values of reporting units are determined based on valuation techniques using the best available information. Inherent in such fair value determinations are certain judgments and estimates relating to future cash flows, including our interpretation of current economic indicators and market valuations, and assumptions about our strategic plans. In developing fair values for our reporting units, we may employ a market multiple or a discounted cash flow methodology, or a combination thereof. The market multiple methodology compares us to similar companies on the basis of risk characteristics to determine our risk profile relative to the comparable companies as a group. This analysis generally focuses on quantitative considerations, which include financial performance and other quantifiable data, and qualitative considerations, which include any factors which are expected to impact future financial performance. The most significant assumptions affecting the market multiple methodology are the market multiples and control premium. A control premium represents the value an investor would pay above non-controlling interest transaction prices in order to obtain a controlling interest in the respective unit.
The discounted cash flow methodology establishes fair value by estimating the present value of the projected future cash flows to be generated from the reporting unit. The discount rate applied to the projected future cash flows to arrive at the present value is intended to reflect all risks of ownership and the associated risks of realizing the stream of projected future cash flows. The discounted cash flow methodology uses our projections of financial performance. The most significant assumptions used in the discounted cash flow methodology are the discount rate and expected future revenue and operating margins, which vary among reporting units. If actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and judgments used in estimating future cash flows and asset fair values, we may be exposed to future impairment losses that could be material to our results of operations.
Intangible Assets
Our intangible assets, excluding goodwill, represent tradenames and customer relationships acquired in purchase transactions, as well as internal-use software acquired in 2020. At December 31, 2020, our intangible asset balance was $7.4 million, representing 4.7% of our total assets. Tradenames are not being amortized and are treated as indefinite-lived assets. Tradenames are tested for recoverability in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, and more frequently, on an interim basis, when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the fair value may have declined below its carrying value. We consider whether or not to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of an intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. If as a result of our qualitative assessment, we determine that an impairment test is required, or alternatively, if we elect to forego the qualitative assessment, we perform a quantitative test and, if required, record an impairment for the difference in the discounted cash flows and the carrying value. The results of the interim qualitative test in the first and second quarter of 2020 indicated that certain of the tradenames at Southwest and Vertex were impaired. Accordingly, we performed a quantitative test on Southwest and Vertex which resulted in an impairment charge of $0.2 million in March 2020 and $0.2 million in June 2020.
We assign useful lives to our intangible assets based on the periods over which we expect the assets to contribute directly or indirectly to our future cash flows. Customer relationships are amortized over 6 to 9 year useful lives and internal software is amortized over 3 year useful life. If events or circumstances were to indicate that any of our definite-lived intangible assets might be impaired, we would assess recoverability based on the estimated undiscounted future cash flows to be generated from the applicable intangible asset.
When performing quantitative assessments for impairment, we use various assumptions in determining the current fair value of these indefinite-lived intangible assets, including future expected cash flows and discount rates under the relief from royalty method, as well as other fair value measures. If actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and judgments used in estimating future cash flows and asset fair values, we may be exposed to future impairment charges that could be material to our results of operations.
Income Taxes
We determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes and measure them using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse.
Estimates, judgments and assumptions are required in determining whether deferred tax assets will be fully or partially realized. We establish a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets when it is more-likely-than-not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In evaluating the ability to realize deferred tax assets, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, in determining whether, based on the weight of that evidence, a valuation allowance is needed for part or all of the deferred tax assets. In determining the need for a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets, we place greater weight on recent and objectively verifiable current information, as compared to more forward-looking information that is used in valuing other assets on the consolidated balance sheet. We have considered taxable income in prior carryback years, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income, and tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance.
We establish liabilities for estimated tax issues, and the provisions and benefits resulting from changes to those liabilities are included in our annual tax provision along with related interest. We recognize interest on any tax issue as a component of interest expense and any related penalties in other operating expenses.
Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic