Because the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its economic consequences are uncertain, rapidly changing and difficult to predict, the pandemic’s impact on our operations, financial performance and liquidity, as well as its impact on our ability to successfully execute our business strategy, remains uncertain and difficult to predict. Further, the ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations and financial performance depends on many factors that are not within our control, including, but not limited, to: governmental, business, suppliers', and individuals’ actions that have been and continue to be taken in response to the pandemic; the impact of the pandemic and actions taken in response on global and regional economies, travel, and economic activity; general economic uncertainty in the global markets we serve and volatility in financial markets; global economic conditions and levels of economic growth; and the pace of recovery when the COVID-19 pandemic subsides. While vaccines have been approved and are being made available, it is unclear how broadly they will be accepted or how quickly they will lead to an end to the pandemic. As a result, it is currently not practicable to predict the precise nature or the extent of any continued adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, and on the global economy as a whole. It is also currently not possible to predict how long the pandemic will last or the time that it will take for economic activity to return to prior levels. As a result, we expect COVID-19 to continue to negatively impact our operating results in future periods, including by increasing many of the risks described below. However, we are currently unable to provide any assurance as to the magnitude and duration of any such impact.
Downturns in capital spending and cyclicality in the markets we serve have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
The majority of our products are used in the construction, maintenance, repair and operation of facilities, plants and projects in the communications, energy, engineering and construction, general manufacturing, infrastructure, oil and gas, marine construction, marine transportation, mining, oilfield services, transportation, utility, wastewater treatment and food and beverage industries. The demand for our products and services depends to a large degree on the capital spending levels of end-users in these markets. Many of these end-users defer capital expenditures or cancel projects during economic downturns or periods of uncertainty. In addition, certain of the markets we serve are cyclical, which affects capital spending by end-users in these industries.
Our operating results are affected by fluctuations in commodity prices.
Copper, steel, aluminum, nickel and petrochemical products are components of the products we sell. Fluctuations in the costs of these and other commodities have historically affected our operating results. If commodity prices decline, the net realizable value of our existing inventory could be reduced, and our gross profit could be adversely affected. To the extent higher commodity prices result in increases in the costs we pay for our products, we attempt to reflect the increase in the prices we charge our customers. While we historically have been able to pass most of these cost increases on to our customers, to the extent we are unable to do so in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, if commodity costs increase, our customers may delay or decrease their purchases of our products.
Our sales are impacted by the level of activity in the oil and gas industry.
We estimate that approximately one-third of our sales directly depend upon the level of capital and operating expenditures in the oil and gas industry, including capital and other expenditures in connection with exploration, drilling, production, gathering, transportation, refining and processing operations. Demand for the products we distribute is sensitive to the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital and other expenditures by, oil and gas companies. A material decline in oil or gas prices, inability to access capital, and consolidation within the industry could all depress levels of exploration, development and production activity and, therefore, could lead to a decrease in our sales due to curtailed capital and MRO expenditures.
Epidemics and other events outside our control, and our inability to successfully mitigate the effects of such events, may harm our business.
All of our facilities are subject to natural or man-made disasters such as floods, fires, acts of terrorism, failures of utilities and epidemics or pandemics such as the coronavirus COVID-19. If such an event were to occur, our business could be harmed due to the event or our inability to successfully mitigate the effects of the particular event. Potential harms include the loss of business continuity, the loss of business data and damage to infrastructure.
Our production and supply chains could be severely affected if our employees or the regions in which our facilities or suppliers are located are affected by a significant outbreak of any disease, epidemic or pandemic. For example, a facility could be closed by government authorities for a sustained period of time, some or all of our workforce could be unavailable due to quarantine, fear of catching the disease or other factors, and local, national or international transportation or other infrastructure could be affected, leading to delays or loss of production. In addition, our suppliers and customers are subject to similar risks, which could lead to a shortage of inventory or components, or a reduction in our customers’ demand for our products.
An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings.
We operate in a highly competitive industry. We compete directly with national, regional and local providers of industrial products. Competition is primarily focused in the local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, quality, product availability, service capabilities and price. Some of our existing competitors have, and new market entrants may have, greater financial and marketing resources than we do. To the extent existing or future competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices, we may be required to lower our prices, thereby adversely affecting our financial results. Existing or future competitors also may seek to compete with us for acquisitions, which could have the effect of increasing the price and reducing the number of suitable acquisitions. Other companies, including our current customers, could seek to compete directly with our private branded products, which could adversely affect our sales of those products and ultimately our financial results. Our existing customers, as well as suppliers, could seek to compete with us by offering services similar to ours, as well as the increasing trend of our suppliers to sell direct to our customer and industry consolidation, which could adversely affect our market share and our financial results. In addition, competitive pressures resulting from economic conditions and the industry trend toward consolidation could adversely affect our growth and profit margins.
Changes to the U.S. tax, tariff and import/export regulations may have a negative effect on our results of operations.
We import a relatively small but growing percentage of our wire and cable products, as well as a significant portion of our hardware products, from foreign manufacturers. Changes resulting from the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could disrupt supply chains on imported goods which could result in limited availability of supply, or cost competitiveness of supply. In addition, recent proposals regarding tariffs have created uncertainty about future trade policies, and any changes in import tariffs or other trade regulations could have a negative impact on our cash flow and require us to change our sourcing and supply chain strategies, adversely affecting our profitability.
Business and Operational Risks
We have risks associated with inventory.
Our business requires us to maintain substantial levels of inventory. We must identify the right mix and quantity of products to keep in our inventory to fulfill customer orders. Failure to do so could adversely affect our sales and earnings. However, if our inventory levels are too high, we are at risk that unexpected changes in circumstances, such as a shift in market demand, drop in prices or loss of a customer, could have a material adverse impact on the net realizable value of our inventory.
We have risks associated with our customers’ access to credit.
Poor credit market conditions may adversely impact the availability of construction and other project financing, upon which many of our customers depend, resulting in project cancellations or delays. Our utility and industrial customers may also face limitations when trying to access the credit markets to fund ongoing operations or capital projects. Credit constraints experienced by our customers may result in lost revenues, reduced gross margins for us and, in some cases, higher than expected bad debt losses.
If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.
We rely on customers to purchase our industrial products. The number, size, business strategy and operations of these customers vary widely from market to market. Our success depends heavily on our ability to identify and respond to our customers’ needs.
In 2020, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 33% of our sales. If we were to lose one or more of our large customers, or if one or more of our large customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, and we were unable to replace the lost sales on similar terms, we could experience a significant loss of revenue and profits. In addition, if one or more of our key customers failed or were
unable to pay, we could experience a write-off or write-down of the related receivables, which could adversely affect our earnings. We participate with national marketing groups and engage in joint promotional sales activities with the members of those groups. Any exclusion of us from, or refusal to allow us to participate in, such national marketing groups could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our results of operations.
An inability to obtain the products that we distribute could result in lost revenues and reduced profits and damage our relationships with customers.
In 2020, we sourced products from approximately 344 suppliers. However, we have adopted a strategy to concentrate our purchases with a small number of suppliers in order to maximize product quality, delivery dependability, purchasing efficiencies and vendor rebates. As a result, in 2020 approximately 55% of our purchases came from ten suppliers. If any of these suppliers changes its sales strategy or decides to terminate its business relationship with us, our sales and earnings could be adversely affected unless and until we were able to establish relationships with suppliers of comparable products. In addition, if we are not able to obtain the products we distribute from either our current suppliers or other competitive sources, we could experience a loss of revenue, reduction in profits and damage to our relationships with our customers. Supply shortages may occur as a result of unanticipated demand or production cutbacks, shortages of raw materials, labor disputes or weather conditions affecting products or shipments, transportation disruptions or other reasons beyond our control. When shortages occur, suppliers often allocate products among their customers, and our allocations might not be adequate to meet our customers' needs.
Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our ability to operate and grow successfully.