Our success depends to a significant extent on the services of our executive officers, key management and sales personnel. We do not have key man life insurance covering any of our executive officers. We may not be able to retain our executive officers, key personnel or attract additional qualified management and sales personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or our other key management and sales personnel or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel could hurt our ability to operate and make it difficult to maintain our market share and to execute our growth strategies.
A change in vendor rebate programs could adversely affect our gross margins and results of operations.
The terms on which we purchase products from many of our suppliers entitle us to receive a rebate based on the volume of our purchases. These rebates effectively reduce our costs for products. If suppliers adversely change the terms of some or all of these programs, the changes may lower our gross margins on products we sell and may have an adverse effect on our operating results.
Information Technology Risks
If we encounter difficulties with our management information systems, including cyber-attacks, we would experience problems managing our business.
We believe our management information systems are a competitive advantage in maintaining a leadership position in the industrial supply industry. We rely upon our management information systems to manage and replenish inventory, determine pricing, fill and ship orders on a timely basis and coordinate our sales and marketing activities. If we experience problems with our management information systems, we could experience product shortages, diminished inventory control or an increase in accounts receivable. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, remote access to our networks and systems has increased substantially. All management information systems are vulnerable to security threats, such as hacking, viruses, malicious software, and other unlawful attempts to disrupt or gain access to these systems. The steps we have taken to mitigate these risks may not be effective to prevent breaches of our information technology infrastructure, some of which is managed by third parties, and we may be more vulnerable to a successful cyber-attack or information security incident while our workforce works remotely. Breaches of our IT infrastructure could lead to disruptions in our business, potentially including the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of confidential employee and customer information stored on our IT systems or confidential data or other business information and subject us to potential lawsuits or other material legal liabilities. These disruptions could adversely affect our operations, financial position, and results of operations.
Legal and Regulatory Risks
We may be subject to product liability claims that could be costly and time consuming.
We sell industrial products. As a result, from time to time we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging that these products caused physical injury or injury to property. We rely on product warranties and indemnities from the product manufacturers, as well as insurance that we maintain, to protect us from these claims. However, if manufacturers' warranties and indemnities and our insurance coverage are not available or inadequate to cover every claim, it could have an adverse effect on our operating results.
Credit and Liquidity Risks
We may be adversely affected by the expected discontinuation of LIBOR.
In November 2020, ICE Benchmark Administration, the administrator of U.S. Dollar LIBOR, announced that, following required consultations, (i) it intends to cease publication of 1-week and 2-month USD LIBOR at the end of 2021 and (ii) subject to compliance with applicable regulations, it does not intend to cease publication of the remaining USD LIBOR tenors until June 30, 2023. This announcement is expected to effectively end LIBOR rates beginning June 2023, and, while other alternatives have been proposed, it is unclear which, if any, alternative to LIBOR will be available and widely accepted in major financial markets. Our loan agreement permits both base rate borrowings and LIBOR borrowings. If an alternative to LIBOR is not available and widely accepted after 2023, our ability to borrow at an alternative to the base rate under our loan agreement may be adversely impacted, and the costs associated with any potential future borrowings may increase.
ITEM 1B.
section_1B: ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
ITEM 2.
section_2: ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Facilities
We operate out of 19 distribution centers strategically located throughout the United States with approximately 885,000 square feet of distribution space. We own two facilities in Houston, Texas, including our corporate headquarters. All of the other facilities are leased, except for our two locations operated by third-party logistics providers, which are provided under service agreements. Seventeen of the facilities, in addition to containing inventory for re-sale, house knowledgeable sales staff. We believe that our properties are in good operating condition and adequately serve our current business operations.
ITEM 3.
section_3: ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits that are brought against us in the normal course of business. We are not currently a party to any legal proceedings that we expect, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition.
ITEM 4.
section_4: ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
SUPPLEMENTAL ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
Name/Office
Age
Business Experience
During Last 5 Years
James L. Pokluda III
President and Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive Officer since January 2012 and President since May 2011. Prior thereto, Vice President Sales & Marketing of the Company from April 2007 until May 2011.
Eric W. Davis
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary since November 2020. Prior thereto, Interim Chief Financial Officer from June 2020 until November 2020, President - Heavy Lift from October 2015 until June 2020 and Vice President & Controller from December 2001 until October 2015.
Jerry M. Zurovchak
Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since June 2020. Prior thereto, Director, Operations from September 2019 June 2020.
PART II
ITEM 5.
section_5: ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “HWCC”. As of December 31, 2020, there were 1,457 holders of record, including participants in security position listings. This figure does not include those beneficial holders whose shares may be held by brokerage firms and clearing agencies.
Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers
The board authorized a stock repurchase program of $25 million in March 2014. The program has no expiration date. Purchases under the stock repurchase program were suspended in November 2016 and reactivated in August 2019. At December 31, 2020, there was $8.1 million available under the program to repurchase stock.
Dividend Policy
We paid a quarterly cash dividend from August 2007 until August 2016. The Board of Directors determined to suspend the regular dividend in November 2016, to redeploy funds for other purposes. We do not intend to resume the payment of cash dividends in the foreseeable future.
Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans
The information called for by this Item regarding securities available for issuance is provided in response to Item 12.
ITEM 6.
section_6: ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
You should read the following selected financial information together with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We have derived the consolidated statement of operations data for each of the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, and the consolidated balance sheet data at December 31, 2020 and 2019, from our audited financial statements, which are included in this Form 10-K. We have derived the consolidated statement of operations data for each of the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the consolidated balance sheet data at December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 from our audited financial statements, which are not included in this Form 10-K.
(1) Our book overdraft is funded by our revolving credit facility as soon as the related checks clear our disbursement accounts.
ITEM 7.
section_7: ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, this discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. Factors that could cause such differences include those described in “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Certain tabular information may not foot due to rounding.
Overview
Since our founding 45 years ago, we have grown to be a large provider of industrial products to the U.S. market. Today, we serve over 8,500 customers. Our products are used in MRO activities and related projects, as well as for larger-scale projects in the utility, industrial and infrastructure markets and a diverse range of industrial applications including communications, energy, engineering and construction, general manufacturing, mining, infrastructure, oilfield services, petrochemical, transportation, utility, wastewater treatment and food and beverage. In the past few years, activity in the MRO market has fluctuated, while the level of competition has increased.
Our revenue is driven in part by the level of capital spending within the end-markets we serve. Because many of these end-markets defer capital expenditures during periods of economic downturns, our business has experienced cyclicality. Our revenue has been and will continue to be impacted by fluctuations in capital spending and by our ability to drive demand through our sales and marketing initiatives and the continued development and marketing of our private branded products, such as LifeGuardTM. In 2020, we were negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic by reducing economic activity and demand for our products, especially in the oil and gas industry, which is our biggest market. Although economic activity and commodity prices have recently begun to show signs of recovery, we cannot yet predict how long the pandemic will continue to have a negative impact on our sales and level of demand.
Our direct costs will continue to be influenced significantly by the prices we pay our suppliers to procure the products we distribute to our customers. Changes in these costs may result, for example, from increases or decreases in raw material costs, changes in our relationships with suppliers or changes in vendor rebates. Our operating expenses will continue to be affected by our investment in sales, marketing and customer support personnel and commissions paid to our sales force for revenue and profit generated. Some of our operating expenses are related to our fixed infrastructure, including rent, utilities, information technology, administrative salaries, maintenance, insurance and supplies. To meet our customers’ needs for an extensive product offering and short delivery times, we will need to continue to maintain adequate inventory levels. Our ability to obtain this inventory will depend, in part, on our relationships with suppliers.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Critical accounting policies are those that both are important to the accurate portrayal of a company’s financial condition and results of operations, and require subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
In order to prepare financial statements that conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, commonly referred to as GAAP, we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and accompanying notes. Certain estimates are particularly sensitive due to their significance to the financial statements and the possibility that future events may be significantly different from our expectations.