At the inception of a contract, the Company assesses whether the contract is, or contains, a lease. The assessment is based on (1) whether the contract involves the use of a distinct identified asset, (2) whether the Company obtains the right to substantially all the economic benefit from the use of the asset throughout the period, and (3) whether the Company has the right to direct the use of the asset. All significant lease arrangements are recognized at lease commencement. Leases with a lease term of 12 months or less at inception are not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease term in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company determines the lease term by assuming the exercise of renewal options that are reasonably certain. As most of the leases do not provide an implicit interest rate, the Company uses the incremental borrowing rate which approximates to a collateralized rate at the commencement date to determine the present value of future payments that are reasonably certain. See Note 7 for more details.
Self Insurance
The Company retains certain self-insurance risks for health benefits. The Company limits its exposure to these self-insurance risks by maintaining excess and aggregate liability coverage. Self-insurance reserves are established based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. The estimates are based on information provided to the Company by its claims administrators.
Segment Reporting
The Company operates in a single operating and reportable segment, sales of industrial products, including electrical and mechanical wire and cable, industrial fasteners, hardware and related services to the U.S. market. The Company’s chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) is its Chief Executive Officer. The CODM makes operational and resource decisions based on company-wide sales and margin performance compared to the established strategic goals of the Company.
Revenue Recognition, Returns & Allowances
The Company’s primary source of revenue is the sale of industrial products based upon purchase orders or contracts with customers. Revenue is recognized at a point in time once the Company has determined that the customer has obtained control over the product. Control is typically deemed to have been transferred to the customer when the product is shipped, or delivered (either by customer pickup or through common carrier). It is not normal Company practice to grant extended payment terms. Revenue is recognized net of any sales taxes collected, which are subsequently remitted to the appropriate taxing authorities. The Company treats its transportation costs (shipping and handling) as fulfillment costs and not as a separate performance obligation. These transportation costs are recorded in cost of sales.
The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for products sold. Revenue is recorded at the transaction price net of estimates of variable consideration, which may include product returns, trade discounts and allowances. The Company accrues for variable consideration using the expected value method. Estimates of variable consideration are included in revenue to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur.
Customers are permitted to return product only on a case-by-case basis. Product exchanges are handled as a credit, with any replacement item being re-invoiced to the customer. Customer returns are recorded as a refund liability, included in accrued and other liabilities, with a corresponding reduction to sales. The Company estimates the gross profit impact of returns and allowances for previously recorded sales. This liability is calculated on historical and statistical returns and allowances data and adjusted as trends in the variables change. The Company has no installation obligations.
The Company may offer sales incentives, which are accrued monthly as an adjustment to sales.
Shipping and Handling
The Company incurs shipping and handling costs in the normal course of business. Freight amounts invoiced to customers are included as sales, and freight charges are included as a component of cost of sales.
Credit Risk
No single customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s sales in 2020, 2019 or 2018. The Company performs periodic credit evaluations of its customers and generally does not require collateral.
Financial Instruments
The carrying values of accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and accrued and other current liabilities approximate fair value, due to the short maturity of these instruments.
Stock-Based Compensation
Restricted stock awards, units and cash awards are valued at the closing price of the Company’s stock on the grant date and are granted under the Company’s 2017 Stock Plan. Stock options issued under the Company’s now-expired 2006 Stock Plan have an exercise price equal to the fair value of the Company’s stock on the grant date. The Company recognizes compensation expense ratably over the vesting period. The Company’s stock-based compensation expense is included in salaries and commissions expense for employees and in other operating expenses for non-employee directors in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Company receives a tax deduction for certain stock option exercises in the period in which the options are exercised, generally for the excess of the market price on the date of exercise over the exercise price of the options. The Company reports excess tax benefits from the award of equity instruments as operating cash flows. Excess tax benefits result when a deduction reported for tax return purposes for an award of equity instruments exceeds the cumulative compensation cost for the instruments recognized for financial reporting purposes.
Income Taxes
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. A valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is recognized when it is more-likely-than-not that some or all of the benefit from the deferred tax assets will not be realized. To assess that likelihood, the Company uses its current financial position, results of operations, both actual and forecasted, the reversal of deferred tax liabilities, and tax planning strategies to determine whether a valuation allowance is required.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) is the sole source of authoritative GAAP other than SEC issued rules and regulations that apply only to SEC registrants. The FASB issues an Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) to communicate changes to the codification. The Company considers the applicability and impact of all ASUs. The following are those recent ASUs that were recently adopted by the Company.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement.” The amendments in this update eliminate, add and modify certain disclosure requirements for fair value measurements as part of the FASB’s disclosure framework project. The Company adopted this ASU in the first quarter of 2020, and the adoption did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, “Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40); Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract.” The amendments in this update require implementation costs incurred by customers in cloud computing arrangements (i.e., hosting arrangements) to be capitalized under the same premises of authoritative guidance for internal-use software, and deferred over the non-cancellable term of the cloud computing arrangement plus any option renewal periods that are reasonably certain to be exercised by the customer or for which the exercise is controlled by the service provider. The Company adopted this ASU in the first quarter of 2020, and the adoption did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In November 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-11, “Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses.” This ASU, among other narrow-scope improvements, clarifies guidance around how to report expected recoveries. This ASU permits organizations to record expected recoveries on assets purchased with credit deterioration. In addition to other narrow technical improvements, the ASU also reinforces existing guidance that prohibits organizations from recording negative allowances for available-for-sale debt securities. The effective date and transition methodology are the same as in ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. The FASB deferred the effective dates of this ASU for smaller reporting companies (“SRC”) to fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022. As of December 31, 2020, the Company qualifies as a SRC and expects to adopt this ASU in the first quarter of 2023.
In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-12, “Income Taxes (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes.” This ASU removes specific exceptions to the general principles in Topic 740 in GAAP. It eliminates the need for an organization to analyze whether certain exceptions apply in a given period. This ASU also improves financial statement preparers’ application of income tax-related guidance and simplifies GAAP for: a) Franchise taxes that are partially based on income; b) Transactions with a government that result in a step up in the tax basis of goodwill; c) Separate financial statements of legal entities that are not subject to tax; and d) Enacted changes in tax laws in interim periods. For public business entities, ASU 2019-12 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is currently assessing the impact of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements.
In March 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-04, “Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting.” The amendments in the ASU provide optional guidance for a limited time to ease the potential burden in accounting for reference rate reform. The new guidance provides optional expedients and exceptions for applying U.S. GAAP to contracts, hedging relationships and other transactions affected by reference rate reform if certain criteria are met. The amendments apply only to contracts and hedging relationships that reference London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") or another reference rate expected to be discontinued due to reference rate reform. The provisions of the new guidance were effective upon issuance and generally can be applied through December 31, 2022 with the option to apply the guidance at any point during that time period. The Company currently has a debt agreement that references LIBOR and will apply the new guidance as this agreement is modified to reference other rates.
2. Earnings (loss) per Share
Basic earnings (loss) per share is calculated by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings (loss) per share include the dilutive effects of options and unvested restricted stock awards and units.
The following reconciles the denominator used in the calculation of diluted earnings (loss) per share:
Stock awards to purchase 843,336, 369,325 and 298,406 shares of common stock were not included in the diluted net income (loss) per share calculation for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, as their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. For the first quarter of 2018, the Company calculated earnings per share using the “two-class” method, whereby unvested share-based payment awards that contained non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents were considered “participating securities”, and therefore, these participating securities were treated as a separate class in computing earnings per share.
3.Detail of Selected Balance Sheet Accounts
Accounts Receivable
The following table summarizes the changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts for the past three years:
Inventories
The following table summarizes the changes in the inventory reserves for the past three years:
Property and Equipment, net
Property and equipment are stated at cost and consist of:
(1)This includes finance leases. See Note 7 for more details.
Intangible assets