As of December 31, 2020, accumulated amortization on the remaining acquired/purchased intangible assets was $3.4 million, and amortization expense was $0.9 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 and $0.8 million in the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. Future amortization expense to be recognized on the remaining acquired/purchased intangible assets is expected to be as follows:
Goodwill
(1)The balance is net of $12.6 million of accumulated impairment losses, of which none were recorded in 2020 or 2019.
Accrued and Other Current Liabilities
(1)This amount represents prepayments by customers for inventory. As the customer requests their inventory, the Company ships the material, reduce the prepayment and recognize the revenue.
4.Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets
The Company tests goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles for impairment at least annually or more frequently whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that it might be impaired. During the first and second quarter of 2020, the Company’s market capitalization declined significantly, driven by macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions due in large part to the COVID-19 outbreak, which has contributed to a decline in demand for the Company’s products, a decline in overall financial performance, partially due to the decline in oil prices, and a deterioration of industry and market conditions. Based on these events, the Company concluded that it was more-likely-than-not that the fair values of certain of its reporting units were less than their carrying values. Therefore, the Company performed interim goodwill impairment tests in both the first and second quarter.
Goodwill impairment is evaluated at each reporting unit that has goodwill; the Southern and Vertex reporting units as of December 31, 2019 and the Vertex reporting unit as of December 31, 2020. At December 31, 2019, the Company determined that the fair values of these two reporting units, as well as certain of the Company’s indefinite lived intangibles, exceeded their respective carrying values. The goodwill balance of Vertex at December 31, 2020 was $9.8 million, and due to its negative carrying value, no goodwill impairment was recorded.
During June 2020, the Company determined the fair value of its Vertex reporting unit’s tradenames was below its carrying value, and as a result recorded an impairment charge of $0.1 million. The Company also determined the fair value of its Southwest reporting unit’s tradenames was below its carrying value, and as a result, recorded an impairment charge of $0.1 million in June 2020 and $0.2 million in March 2020.
As part of the divestiture of the Southern reporting unit, the Company wrote-off its $12.5 million goodwill balance and as part of the HFS classification of the Southwest reporting unit, wrote-off its $1.0 million tradenames balance at December 31, 2020.
A qualitative assessment was performed as of October 1, 2019 for the Southern, Southwest and Vertex reporting units. The results of the test indicated that it was more-likely-than-not that the fair value of the reporting units exceeded their respective carrying values except for certain of the tradenames of the Southwest reporting unit for which a quantitative test was necessary and an impairment charge of $0.1 million was recorded for 2019.
The Company is still anticipating growth in the business acquired in Vertex reporting unit. If this projected growth is not achieved and or there are future reductions in our market capitalization or market multiples, further goodwill and intangible assets impairments may result.
5.Debt
On March 12, 2019 and December 10, 2019, the Company, as guarantor, HWC Wire & Cable Company and Vertex, as borrowers, and Bank of America, N.A., as agent and lender, entered into the Second and Third Amendments, respectively, to the Fourth Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (such agreement, as so amended, the “Loan Agreement”). The Second Amendment extended the expiration date until March 12, 2024 and the Third Amendment increased the revolving credit facility to $115 million . Under certain circumstances, the Company may request an increase in the commitment by an additional $50 million.
Portions of the loan may be converted to LIBOR loans in minimum amounts of $1.0 million and integral multiples of $0.1 million. LIBOR loans bear interest at the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate plus 100 to 150 basis points based on availability, and loans not converted to LIBOR loans bear interest at a fluctuating rate equal to the greatest of the agent’s prime rate, the federal funds rate plus 50 basis points, or 30-day LIBOR plus 150 basis points. The unused commitment fee is 25 basis points.
Availability under the Loan Agreement is limited to a borrowing base equal to 85% of the value of eligible accounts receivable, plus the lesser of 70% of the value of eligible inventory or 90% of the net orderly liquidation value percentage of the value of eligible inventory, in each case less certain reserves. The Loan Agreement is secured by substantially all of the property of the Company, other than real estate.
The Loan Agreement includes, among other things, covenants that require the Company to maintain a specified minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, unless certain availability levels exist. Additionally, the Loan Agreement allows for the unlimited payment of dividends and repurchases of stock, subject to the absence of events of default and maintenance of a fixed charge coverage ratio and minimum level of availability. The Loan Agreement contains certain provisions that may cause the debt to be classified as a current liability, in accordance with GAAP, if availability falls below certain thresholds, even though the ultimate maturity date under the Loan Agreement remains March 12, 2024. At December 31, 2020, the Company was in compliance with the availability-based covenant governing its indebtedness.
The Company’s borrowings at December 31, 2020 and 2019 were $28.8 million and $83.5 million, respectively. The weighted average interest rates on outstanding borrowings were 1.9% and 3.4% at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
At December 31, 2020, the Company had available borrowing capacity of $47.5 million under the terms of the Loan Agreement. The Company paid $0.1 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 for the unused facility.
The carrying amount of long term debt approximates fair value as it bears interest at variable rates. The fair value is a Level 2 measurement as defined in ASC Topic 820, “Fair Value Measurement.”
On May 4, 2020, the Company received a $6.2 million Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”) loan from Bank of America (“Lender”), funded under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”), pursuant to a Promissory Note issued by the Company to Lender. The Company used the funds to pay its payroll related expenses as well as rent expenses, as allowed by the terms of the loan. The Company has applied for loan forgiveness and expects to achieve 90-95% forgiveness. The forgiveness amount will be equal to the amount that the Company used for the approved expenses: a minimum of 60% on payroll related expenses and up to 40% on non-payroll expenses. Any amount of the loan that is not forgiven will be due two years from the funding date of May 4, 2020 to repay the balance of the PPP loan. No principal or interest payments will be due prior to the end of the six-month deferment period and the interest rate on the balance of the loan will not exceed 1.0% per annum.
Principal repayment obligations for succeeding fiscal years are as follows:
(1)The Company has applied for loan forgiveness and believes that it will achieve 90-95% forgiveness, or approximately $5.6-$5.9 million.
6.Income Taxes
The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of:
A reconciliation of the U.S. Federal statutory tax rate to the effective tax rate on income before taxes is as follows:
Significant components of the Company’s deferred taxes were as follows:
The Company does not have any unrecognized tax benefits recorded at December 2020, 2019 and 2018. The Company recognizes interest on any tax issue as a component of interest expense and any related penalties in other operating expenses. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company recorded no provision for interest or penalties related to uncertain tax positions. The tax years 2016 through 2020 remain open to examination by the major taxing jurisdictions to which the Company is subject.
7.Leases
Effective January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU No. 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842)” and the series of related ASUs that followed (collectively referred to as “Topic 842”). The most significant changes under the new guidance include clarification of the definition of a lease, and the requirements for lessees to recognize a right-of-use (ROU) asset and a lease liability for all qualifying leases with terms longer than twelve months in the consolidated balance sheet. In addition, under Topic 842, additional disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The Company elected the practical expedient available under ASU 2018-11 “Leases: Targeted Improvements,” which allows the Company to apply the transition provision for Topic 842 at the Company’s adoption date instead of at the earliest comparative period presented in the Company’s financial statements. Therefore, the Company recognized and measured leases existing at January 1, 2019 but without retrospective application. The Company also elected all other available practical expedients except the hindsight practical expedient.
In electing the practical expedients, the Company utilized the transition practical expedient package whereby the Company did not reassess (i) whether any of the Company’s expired or existing contracts contain a lease, (ii) the classification for any expired or existing leases and (iii) initial direct costs for any existing leases.
The impact of Topic 842 on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2019 was the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while the Company’s accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged. The Company’s finance leases were immaterial prior to the adoption of Topic 842, and no change was made to the classification of these leases. As a result of the adoption of Topic 842, beginning retained earnings was impacted by $0.1 million and there was no impact to the consolidated statement of operations.
The Company leases property including warehouse space, offices, vehicles and equipment. The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception. As part of the transition to the new standard, the Company reviewed agreements with suppliers, vendors, customers, and other outside parties to determine if any agreements met the definition of an embedded lease. This is based on the nature of the contracts reviewed, and various factors, including identified assets included in the agreement to which the Company has exclusive rights of control as described by Topic 842. The Company concluded that these are not material agreements with parties that would constitute an embedded lease. For purposes of calculating operating lease liabilities, lease terms may be deemed to include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise that option.
Beginning January 1, 2019, operating ROU assets and operating lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term at commencement date. Operating leases in effect prior to January 1, 2019 were recognized at the present value of the remaining lease payments over the remaining lease term as of January 1, 2019. The Company is required to determine a discount rate in order to calculate the present value of lease payments. If the rate is not included in the lease or cannot be readily determined, the Company uses its incremental secured borrowing rate based on lease term information available at the commencement date of the lease in determining the present value of lease payments. The Company recognizes lease components and non-lease components together and not as separate parts of a lease for all leases. The Company will exercise this practical expedient in the future by asset class.
Rent expense was approximately $3.7 million in 2018.