section_1: ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
Corporate Overview
The Company's principal executive office is located at 1135 Makawao Avenue, Suite 103-188 Makawao, Hawaii 96768. The Company's telephone number is 833-GoHerbo (833 464-3726). The Company's website is www.useherbo.com.
The Company's common stock symbol is "ESSI". During May 2017 the trading of ESSI shares on the public exchanges was suspended, and although the suspension has been lifted, a Form 15c2-11 with current information must be filed with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) prior to the caveat emptor status being lifted, and before trading can resume. The Company is in the process of getting a Form 15c2-11 filed; as soon as it meets FINRA's criteria, it will be filed. This is anticipated to take place during the third quarter of fiscal 2021.
On February 14, 2014, the company effected a 1,000- for 1 reverse split. All share and per share figures herein reflect the impact of the split.
Corporate History
Formation and Business Development
The Company was incorporated in the state of Nevada on December 8, 2009, under the name Pristine Solutions, Inc.
On March 7, 2012, the Company filed a Certificate of Change with the State of Nevada increasing the shares of common stock from 100,000,000 to 650,000,000 common stock; par value $0.0001 and decreasing the shares of Preferred Stock from 100,000,000 to 50,000,000; par value $0.001.
On August 23, 2012, the Company changed its fiscal year from December 31 to January 31.
During the fiscal years ended January 31, 2012 thorough 2015 the Company acquired various projects and corporate entities across various industry sectors in an effort to commence revenue generating operations. As a result of the transition in business focus, management teams and controlling shareholders over these fiscal periods, the Company changed its name from Pristine Solutions Inc. to Eaton Scientific Systems Inc. effective November 27, 2012, and subsequently to Eco Science Solutions, Inc. during February 2014, in order to better reflect its evolving business operations. The Company effected a 1000-to-1 reverse stock split in February 2014.
On December 15, 2015, our current management, Mr. Jeffery Taylor and to Mr. Don Taylor became the controlling shareholders of the Company and continue to control approximately 20% of the issued and outstanding shares.
Effective December 17, 2015, Mr. Jeffery Taylor was appointed to serve as Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company and Mr. Don Lee Taylor was appointed to serve as Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Upon this change in control, the direction of business turned to a focus on eco-friendly products and related businesses. Between 2015 and 2017 the Company worked to develop certain apps known as Herbo and Fitrix for introduction to the marketplace.
The Fitrix app is a powerful and flexible companion, which helps users keep track of your day-to-day fitness routines, dietary habits and alternative medicine intake. Fitrix users can measure and track anything and everything when it comes to their health and wellness. One can track the accomplishment of custom created goals, monitor dietary, exercise and alternative medication schedules, be notified of important milestones, establish timelines to develop effective habits ... all leveraging a unique notebook and calendar. During fiscal 2020, the Company determined to cease support of the Fitrix app in favour of its Herbo app and suite of enterprise software.
The Herbo apps include a database of over 14,000 alternative medicine locations and delivery services, doctors who provide evaluations, and local shops that sell relevant product. The Herbo app helps consumers find products and services that support the intake of alternative medicines for a more naturopathic way of living. Expansions to Herbo over the most recent fiscal years include Herbo For Consumers, Herbo for Business and Herbo for Drivers.
During fiscal 2018 ESSI acquired 100% of the shares of capital stock of Ga-Du Corporation (“Ga-Du”), at which time Ga-Du became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Concurrent
with the transaction, on June 21, 2017, Mr. John Lewis and Mr. S. Randall Overson joined the Board of directors of ESSI. Ga-Du offers a Financial Services Platform, as well as Inventory Control and Advisory Software Platforms, and Retail Inventory Control, bringing important enterprise technologies in-house and bringing ESSI an opportunity to expand the reach of its Herbo branding. Subsequently Ga-Du Corporation entered into an Assignment Agreement with G&L Enterprises, wherein G&L Enterprises assigned to Ga-Du Corporation, all of its rights, interest in, and obligations under a License and Master Marketing Agreement (LMMA) it entered into with Alliance Financial Network, Inc. ("AFN").
AFN provides financial and enterprise services to businesses and individuals, including the cannabis industry, on a programmatic or membership basis from which AFN derives fees and income from enrolling companies in their financial program and providing a range of services, with respect to which AFN and Ga-Du derive fees and income on a fee based schedule.
The primary focus of AFN is a mobile application known as eXPO™ electronic eXchange Portal which provides virtual financial and enterprise services to businesses and individuals that are challenged in the traditional banking systems, and/or require more intensive compliance than banks are willing, or able to perform and/or do not have the technical expertise or financial wherewithal in house to develop their own FinTech solutions, including accounting and enterprise management software. One such industry is the cannabis industry where AFN establishes Membership relationships with businesses in this industry, following a full compliance audit on the business. These services utilize the Herbo suite of software to effectively track transactional data for eXPO™ users, providing Ga-Du a share of all Cannabis related revenues received by AFN regardless of the source of revenues through (i) membership fees; (ii) cash depository fees; (iii) merchant processing and credit card fees; (iv) transfer fees; and (v) advertising fees. AFN’s services operate on a national level with sales in both cannabis and non-cannabis based industries. While revenues allocated to Ga-Du are currently governed on a territory by territory basis, Ga-Du and AFN are actively negotiating an amendment to the agreements to become all inclusive.
In exchange for the revenue split under the LMMA, as amended in March 2018, Ga-Du agreed to pay to AFN $405,000 in three tranches for operational expenses and business development.
Under the terms of the aforementioned agreements with respect to a beta trial for the AFN services focused solely on the State of Colorado during the period May through October 31, 2018, $28,431 is payable to Ga-Du from revenue generated by operations on the eXPOTM platform. Subsequently the operations were suspended through August 2019, during which time AFN solidified its’ primary banking relationship and is now able to service and scale as needed with the client’s needs. While AFN re-commenced operating the eXPOTM platform during August 2019, Ga-Du does not yet have any additional revenue allocations. Presently AFN is growing exclusively on a Member referral basis. We expect revenue from this agreement to resume during fiscal 2021.
During February 2019 the Company determined to focus on the growth of its Herbo branding with the development of an easy-to-use enterprise software that allows clients to simplify their processes, remain compliant, and enjoy steady growth. We engaged a third party to provide development services relative to a suite of software for managing operations including accounting, inventory control and management, data management, reporting and compliance, lead generation and marketing, CRM sales management and certain other key functions.
On March 1, 2019 the Company and Haiku Holdings LLC "Haiku", a company controlled by our COO, Mike Rountree, entered into a Trademark Licensing Agreement. Under the terms of the agreement, the Licensed Marks, including and incorporating Herbo, may be used by Haiku to facilitate the Company's business including lead generation and referral services. Further, as a result of any revenue generating business generated by Haiku, the Company shall receive 90% of the net revenue. The license remains in effect for a period of ten (10) years from the effective date of the agreement and may be terminated on sixty (60) days written notice by the Company should there be a material breach which remains uncured, or at any time on ten (10) days written notice by Haiku without cause.
Effective July 1, 2019, the Company (“Reseller”) entered into a Software Reseller Agreement with respect to the Herbo suite of software offerings with Haiku (“Licensor”). Licensor is the owner of certain computer software-as-a-service offerings and related documentation that it provides to end users. Under the terms of the agreement, the Reseller desires (a) a non-exclusive license of the Software and (b) a non-exclusive, non-transferable, non-assignable and limited right and license to reproduce, market, and distribute such Software, and Licensor agrees to grant to Reseller such right and license. Under the terms of the agreement for each respective End User License Agreement (EULA) entered into with an End User, Reseller shall pay Licensor the corresponding license fee for the software usage of 10% of gross receipts from End Users. Fees are due on or prior to the 15th day of each calendar month in respect of all gross receipts received from End Users during the previous calendar month.
During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 the company recorded $5,973 as license fees payable to Haiku under costs of sales as a result of gross revenues generated from software sales of $59,729.
Current Business and Strategy
Our business operations commenced generating modest revenues subsequent to our fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 and up to the period ended October 31, 2018, when the initial phase of our eXPOTM beta revenue model testing were complete. Subsequently the operations were suspended through August 2019, during which time AFN solidified its’ primary banking relationship and is now able to service and scale as needed with the client’s needs. While AFN re-commenced operating the eXPOTM platform during August 2019, Ga-Du does not yet have any additional revenue allocations. Presently AFN is growing exclusively on a Member referral basis. We expect revenue from this agreement to resume during fiscal 2021. During fiscal 2020 we took steps to shift our focus to monetizing our Herbo branded apps and recently developed enterprise software to assist companies in the cannabis industry to simplify their processes, remain compliant, and enjoy steady growth. Under the terms of our licensing agreements with Haiku we commenced generating revenues from licensing of our software during the current fiscal year and continue to seek expansion of this growing area of operation.
Eco Science Solutions, Inc. is committed to becoming a vertically integrated provider of consumer and enterprise technology products and services, which assist consumers, companies, brands and entrepreneurs to effectively transact business, with compliance, in the combined multi-billion-dollar cannabis and CBD hemp industries.
The Company's consumer initiatives are centered on education and connecting consumers with various cannabis and CBD hemp businesses. Its enterprise initiatives are focused on developing technology and accounting solutions, coupled with data analytics to help businesses to be more effective in their abilities to connect, market, and sell to consumers.
Eco Science Solutions, Inc has technology and service relationships with those in farming, extraction, manufacturing and distribution in both the cannabis and CBD hemp industries. Along with its subsidiary Ga-Du, ESSI is able to provide a 360-degree ecosystem for business location, localized communications between consumers and business operators, on-topic social networking, inventory management / selection, payment facilitation and cash management.
* Eco Science Solutions, Inc. is not in the business of growing, manufacturing, or distributing cannabis.
Operations of Ga-Du
Our wholly owned subsidiary, Ga-Du, acquired in June 2017, offers the following suite of business functions and opportunities:
Financial Services Platform Summary