On June 21, 2017, Ga-Du entered into an employment agreement with Ms. Wendy Maguire, whereby Ms. Maguire accepted employment as Vice President, business development of Ga-Du for two years unless terminated earlier in accordance with the agreement. During her period of employment, Ms. Maguire had a base salary at an annual rate of $120,000. Ms. Maguire resigned as Vice President, Business Development on December 12, 2018. Prior to her resignation, during September 2018, Ms. Maguire filed a Complaint in the United States District Court from the Western District of Washington for payment of accrued and unpaid wages, legal fees and damages. Refer to Note 14 (7) of the audited financial statements included in this Annual report.
On June 21, 2017, Ga-Du entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Dante Jones, whereby Mr. Jones accepted employment as Special Advisor to Ga-Du for two years unless terminated earlier in accordance with the agreement. During his period of employment, Mr. Jones has a base salary at an annual rate of $120,000. The Board shall review the Base Salary on an annual basis and may, but is not required to, make upward adjustments from time to time. The employment agreement was not renewed on expiry. Salary payable to Mr. Jones under the employment agreement has been accrued during fiscal 2018 through 2020 in the total amount of $240,000, all of which remains unpaid.
On June 21, 2017, Ga-Du entered into a consulting agreement with Andy Tucker, whereby Mr. Tucker will provide services to the Cannabis industry under development by the Company, as well as act as an advisor to various State regulators concerning the Cannabis industry for two years unless terminated earlier in accordance with the agreement. During the period of the agreement, Mr. Tucker has a base salary at an annual rate of $120,000. The employment agreement was not renewed on expiry. Compensation payments shall be divided into twelve (12) equal monthly payments, payable in arrears on the last day of each month following the commencement of the agreement, provided that any partial month worked shall be payable on the last day of such partial month. Salary payable to Mr. Tucker under the Consulting agreement has been accrued during fiscal 2018 through 2020 in the total amount of $240,000, all of which remains unpaid.
There are no other employment contracts, compensatory plans or arrangements, including payments to be received from the Company with respect to any executive officer, that would result in payments to such person because of his or her resignation, retirement or other termination of employment with the Company, or its subsidiaries, any change in control, or a change in the person's responsibilities following a change in control of the Company.
There are no agreements or understandings for any executive officer to resign at the request of another person. None of the Company's executive officers' acts or will act on behalf of or at the direction of any other person.
Equity Compensation Plan
2012 Employee Stock Option Plan
On September 1, 2012, the Company adopted the Employee Stock Option Plan ("2012 Plan"), wherein 25,000,000 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance. The 2012 Plan was intended to assist the Company in securing and retaining key employees, directors and consultants by allowing them to participate in the Company's ownership and growth through the grant of incentive and non-qualified options.
There are no options presently outstanding under this plan.
2016 Equity Incentive Plan
On January 1, 2016, the Company's Board of Directors approved the 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2016 Plan"). The purpose of this Plan is to attract, retain and motivate the officers, directors, employees and consultants of the Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates, as well as provide a means of compensation for consultants, and to promote the success of the Company's business by providing them with appropriate incentives and rewards either through a proprietary interest in the long-term success of the Company or compensation based on fulfilling certain performance goals.
The Plan shall become effective and Awards may be granted on and after January 1, 2016 (the "Effective Date"). Any Awards of incentive stock options granted under the Plan are granted subject to approval of the Plan by the stockholders of the Company within twelve (12) months after the Effective Date. If such approval has not been obtained within such twelve (12) month period, grants of incentive stock options shall be deemed to have been grants of non-qualified stock options.
Participants will consist of such Employees, Directors and Consultants as the Committee in its sole discretion determines and whom the Committee may designate from time to time to receive Awards under this Plan; provided, however, that Options and Stock Appreciation Rights may only be granted to those Employees, Directors and Consultants with respect to whom the Company is an "eligible issuer" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code. The designation of an individual as a Participant in any year shall not require that the Committee designate such individual to receive an Award in any other year or to receive the same type or amount of Award in any other year.
Awards under this Plan may be granted in any one or a combination of: (a) Non-Restricted Employee Benefit Plan Stock; (b) Restricted Stock; and (c) Other Stock-Based Awards. Awards granted under this Plan shall be evidenced by Award Agreements (which need not be identical) that provide additional terms and conditions associated with such Awards, including, without limitation, restrictive covenants, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion; provided, however, that in the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Plan and any such Award Agreement, the provisions of the Plan shall prevail unless otherwise indicated in the Award Agreement.
During fiscal 2017 the Company filed two separate Form S-8's in April and November 2016 respectively for a total of 10,000,000 shares under its 2016 Equity Incentive Plan. As of January 31, 2017, a total of 9,307,953 shares had been issued under the respective Form S-8's. There were no shares issued under this plan in fiscal 2018, 2019 or 2020.
2017 Equity Incentive Plan
On June 20, 2017 the Company's Board of Directors approved the 2017 Equity Incentive Plan, reserving a total of 15,000,000 shares of common stock for issuance from time to time. The purpose of this Plan is to attract, retain and motivate the officers, directors, employees and consultants of the Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates, as well as provide a means of compensation for consultants, and to promote the success of the Company's business by providing them with appropriate incentives and rewards either through a proprietary interest in the long-term success of the Company or compensation based on fulfilling certain performance goals.
The Plan shall become effective and Awards may be granted on and after June 20, 2017 (the "Effective Date"). Any Awards of incentive stock options granted under the Plan are granted subject to approval of the Plan by the stockholders of the Company within twelve (12) months after the Effective Date. If such approval has not been obtained within such twelve (12) month period, grants of incentive stock options shall be deemed to have been grants of non-qualified stock options.
Participants will consist of such Employees, Directors and Consultants as the Committee in its sole discretion determines and whom the Committee may designate from time to time to receive Awards under this Plan; provided, however, that Options and Stock Appreciation Rights may only be granted to those Employees, Directors and Consultants with respect to whom the Company is an "eligible issuer" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code. The designation of an individual as a Participant in any year shall not require that the Committee designate such individual to receive an Award in any other year or to receive the same type or amount of Award in any other year.
Awards under this Plan may be granted in any one or a combination of: (a) Non-Restricted Employee Benefit Plan Stock; (b) Restricted Stock; and (c) Other Stock-Based Awards. Awards granted under this Plan shall be evidenced by Award Agreements (which need not be identical) that provide additional terms and conditions associated with such Awards, including, without limitation, restrictive covenants, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion; provided, however, that in the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Plan and any such Award Agreement, the provisions of the Plan shall prevail unless otherwise indicated in the Award Agreement.
There have been no shares issued under this plan in fiscal 2020, 2019 or 2018.
Stock Options/SAR Grants
The Company granted no stock options to directors and officers through the 2012 Plan, 2016 Plan or 2017 Plan during the years ended January 31, 2020, 2019 or 2018.
Restricted Stock Awards
No restricted stock awards have been granted during the years ended January 31, 2020 and 2019.
Aggregated Option Exercised in Last Fiscal Year
There were no options exercised during the years ended January 31, 2020 and 2019, by any officer or director of the Company.
Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year End
There were no outstanding equity awards as of the years ended January 31, 2020 and 2019.
Compensation of Directors
The Company reimburses its directors for expenses incurred in connection with attending board meetings. The Company has no formal plan for compensating its directors for their service in their capacity as directors. The Company has not paid any cash compensation or director's fees for services rendered as a director since the Company's inception to the date of this filing.
Pension, Retirement or Similar Benefit Plans
As of January 31, 2020, the Company had no pension plans or compensatory plans or other arrangements which provide compensation in the event of termination of employment or change in control of us. There are no arrangements or plans in which the Company provides pension, retirement or similar benefits for directors or executive officers. The Company has no material bonus or profit sharing plans pursuant to which cash or non-cash compensation is or may be paid to its directors or executive officers, except that stock options may be granted at the discretion of the Board of Directors or a committee thereof.
Compensation Committee
The Company currently does not have a compensation committee of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors as a whole determines executive compensation.
ITEM 12.
section_12: ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The following table sets forth, as of June 15, 2020 certain information with respect to the beneficial ownership of its common stock by each stockholder known by the Company to be the beneficial owner of more than 5% of its common stock and by each of its current directors and executive officers. Each person has sole voting and investment power with respect to the shares of common stock, except as otherwise indicated. Beneficial ownership consists of a direct interest in the shares of common stock, except as otherwise indicated.
(1)
As used herein, the term beneficial ownership with respect to a security is defined by Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as consisting of sole or shared voting power (including the power to vote or direct the vote) and/or sole or shared investment power (including the power to dispose or direct the disposition of) with respect to the security through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, including a right to acquire such power(s) within 60 days of June 15, 2020. Unless otherwise noted, beneficial ownership consists of sole ownership, voting and investment rights.
(2)
There were 47,557,572 shares of common stock outstanding on June 15, 2020and 0 shares of Preferred Stock issued and outstanding.
(3)
Calculation of percentage of Voting Shares is based on the following voting rights: (a) each share of Common Stock has the right to cast one (1) vote.
(4)
Deepsea Solutions LLC is 50% controlled by S. Randall Oveson.
Changes in Control