Ga-Du has developed multiple financial services applications. It has created a software platform that captures individual and business entity data. Ga-Du platform is a secure portal for account access and features incorporating current banking standards for operating and securing online data. In terms of Financial Services, the Ga-Du platform uses a strict and proprietary Know-Your-Customer (KYC) process, this ensures compliance regardless of the underlying usage. This software can be used for membership capture, registrations of various kinds, for customer accounts retention and marketing, and/or for bank accounts. In addition, the Ga-Du banking platform has been enhanced for mobile devices. The mobile payment platform accommodates the purchasing of products and services like those offered by ESSI, and/or a combined entity, as well as other products and services both inside and outside the cannabis industry. By targeting digital customers rather than brick-and-mortar customers, the digital Ga-Du platform acquired by ESSI is ready to provide banking services to any underserved area.
Inventory Control and Advisory Systems Business Summary
Retail marijuana is arguably the fastest growing segment of the cannabis industry. National monthly sales numbers seem to demonstrate, average year-over-year increases of over 100% for some years following legalization. However, cannabis retailers still face hurdles finding working capital due to the federal regulation of cannabis as a Schedule I drug. This lack of capital results in a potential market disruption opportunity. Because businesses have not had financial resources to develop their own effective business solutions of various kinds, they represent potential "soft targets" for Ga-Du software and enterprise processes for inventory control and other services. ESSI, through its acquisition of Ga-Du Corporation, will make available its Ga-Du solutions, advisory services, and inventory control systems (from raw materials to finished product) directly to licensed retail businesses, as well as work-flow analysis and management. Ga-Du has an experienced retail management team which has put in place similar as well as other services systems and processes for inventory acquisition and control. These systems and processes can be licensed to regulate marijuana retail businesses potentially, allowing the retail business to focus on the customer experience while letting ESSI provide the backend technology and systems. The Ga-Du Management team believes that combining the business customer network of ESSI with the technology and systems that Ga-Du has assembled, in a manner that can allow retail businesses rapid access to cutting-edge technology and retail-marijuana-specific inventory control solutions, may provide ESSI with an edge in the rapidly expanding area of cannabis advisory/business services.
Master marketing agreement and AFN
Through our executed LMMA between Ga-Du and AFN, Ga-Du has the exclusive right to undertake marketing responsibilities of AFN's eXPOTM platform to businesses globally for CBD, Hemp and Cannabis, provided that such sales do not include Cannabis sales which have not been legalized by that territory’s laws.
AFN is registered with FinCEN (MSB Registration Number: 31000094744769) as a non-financial services institution, compliant with the AML/BSA guidelines of FinCEN, and is regulated by the IRS. Operating a mobile application known as eXPO™ electronic eXchange Portal, AFN provides financial and marketing services to businesses and individuals, which are challenged in the traditional banking systems, and generally are those that require more intensive compliance then banks are willing, or able to perform. One such industry is the cannabis industry; however the portal has application to various other industry segments. AFN is configured to establish Membership relationships with businesses in this industry following a full compliance audit on the business, where applicable, allowing licensed cannabis businesses and other clients an automated tax payment system and Internet banking services including wire transfers, ACH, electronic checks, armored pickup of cash, and bill pay, payroll services, and inventory control "seed to "CPA". AFN has partnered with our enterprise software suite “Herbo” to augment its services with an enterprise software bundle offering extended services such as business accounting, business insurance, director insurance, employee payroll, inventory system, and credit/debit card management. Additionally, the AFN automated tax payment system can calculate and deliver state tax payments within 48hrs after the funds are made available in a taxpayer's account. The AFN eXPO™ solution is a federally registered solution in the United States which incorporates an in-depth anti-laundering and "Know Your Customer" process, ensuring compliance with the Cole memo and all federal and state regulations. Further bundled into this software solution is the "seed to CPA" accounting system, which provides a frugal and efficient way for businesses to report and manage their finances. In terms of tax collection, account services, and business features, this software is unparalleled at providing fast, compliant, and traceable cash management solutions.
Under the agreements, AFN will provide all software platform(s) necessary to deliver the Financial Services, assure compliance with appropriate Federal Requirements and international money laundering restrictions, administer all compliance, enrollment, and collection of fees from the Members contracting with AFN, provide any and all necessary marketing or other materials describing AFN's services and program, will forward any required Sales Commissions to the appropriate recipients, and assure adequate customer service at all times.
AFN will be responsible for the functional operation of any software utilized in providing its services and for the administration and handling of monies and/or any credits relating thereto and, in the event of any claim, cause of action or lawsuit (together the "Claims") for failure to properly administer such responsibilities, AFN shall have the sole obligation to defend such Claim(s) and shall fully indemnify, defend and hold harmless Ga-Du from and against such Claims.
AFN will maintain accounting and data concerning the income from the Cannabis Industry and will generate a monthly income statement as to each of the following revenue streams: (i) membership fees; (ii) cash depository fees; (iii) merchant processing and credit card fees; (iv) transfer fees; and (v) advertising fees.
AFN and Ga-Du split compensation derived from income generated from enrollees of Ga-Du according to a fee schedule established for each level of business relationship. As noted above, while the revenue sharing agreement is currently based on territory, AFN and GA-Du are currently re-negotiating to include all service areas.
During fiscal 2019 we completed a beta program restricted to the State of Colorado whereby we generated revenues between May and October 2018 under this business segment and while initial revenue sharing was modest, we expect this segment to become a viable revenue stream in the Company's portfolio during fiscal 2021. Subsequently the operations were suspended through August 2019, during which time AFN solidified its’ primary banking relationship and is now able to service and scale as needed with the client’s needs. While AFN re-commenced operating the eXPOTM platform during August 2019, Ga-Du does not yet have any additional revenue allocations.
Herbo App
Herbo
The Herbo apps include a database of over 14,000 alternative medicine locations and delivery services, doctors who provide evaluations, and local shops that sell relevant product. The Herbo app helps consumers find products and services that support the intake of alternative medicines for a more naturopathic way of living.
Consumers may use the UseHerbo ecommerce platform and access "The Pursuit of Fine Herb" original content. Under the direction and vision of our officers and directors, Jeff Taylor and Don Taylor, the Company continues to source and release into the market relevant products for sale coupled with unique original, educational content. Initially created and copyrighted content within two distinct channels: one branded Eco Science Solutions, which is focused on Legislative, Geo-political, Financial, , and general Macro-trends within the Cannabis marketplace; and one branded Herbo, which is focused on user-generated that revolves around Daily lifestyle, Medical and Recreational Usage content, Reviews of Application, Products, Technologies and Commerce Options, as well as Food Pairings and Edibles.
Image of Herbo application:
A component of our business is involved with the medical marijuana category. As evidenced in the following services offered:
Herbo for Consumers
Consumers can use our Consumer-facing Herbo app with the following core e-commerce and social networking features: (1) location and directory listings of cannabis-related businesses that include physical dispensaries, delivery services, smoke shops and doctors; (2) product catalog of cannabis-related products that can be browsed; (3) e-wallet that stores credit cards and specialty gift cards, allowing for seamless electronic payments; (4) discrete messaging that allows for consumers to communicate directly with cannabis-related businesses; and (5) content streams that allow for consumer-generated and business-generated content to be captured and share amongst the Herbo community to build engagement and loyalty.
Herbo's e-commerce features allow consumers to locate, access, and buy premium cannabis-related products easily, conveniently and securely. Its social networking features focus on engaging and growing the Herbo community with like-minded enthusiasts.
Herbo for Business
Enterprise-focused app for marijuana businesses with the following core features: (1) claiming of business listing; (2) updating and management of business profile information; (3) messaging that allows for management of businesses to discretely communicate directly with cannabis enthusiasts; (4) updating and management of product catalog and product offerings; (5) affiliate marketing; and (6) customer relationship management tools that support the targeting and engagement of prospective, current, and past customers.
Herbo for Drivers
Herbo is currently developing a branded delivery service for its client base. We anticipate that “Herbo Drivers” will be able to receive, coordinate and provide same-day delivery services for consumer orders that are purchased on Herbo and desired immediately. The Herbo Drivers app once complete will integrate seamlessly with Herbo's consumer and business platforms to provide customers with enhanced visibility and tracking of their Herbo orders.
While ESSI does not grow or distribute medical marijuana, certain professional customers of ours do. Thus, adverse regulatory legislation may have a material negative effect on our business.
Enterprise software
The Herbo Enterprise Software is a customizable, all-in-one business software (SaaS) and resource for businesses in the Cannabis and Hemp industries. Herbo provides the software, custom web development, operational training and support needed to plan and manage your Marijuana or CBD business. Our software has provided businesses with intelligence software for over 15 years, while offering seed-to-sale software solutions to the Cannabis and Hemp industries since 2010.
Cultivators, Processors, Manufacturers, Labs, Distributors, Transporters, Dispensaries, Retailers and Regulators, from seed-to-CPA are all target users of Herbo.
We have developed a one-stop-shop our clients’ business needs with a goal of providing all services with one single login:
•
Point-of-Sale
•
Bookkeeping & Banking
•
Inventory Tracking & Management
•
Compliance & Reporting
•
Tax & Accounting
•
Payroll & Employee Time Tracking
•
e-Commerce
•
Merchant Processing Integration
•
CRM & Customer Loyalty
Customers can support any business with the Herbo end-to-end enterprise software, no matter size or industry
•
Single dispensary operations
•
Integrated vertical operations
•
Multiple site operations with
Our complete Herbo software product website is available at www.useherbo.com.
Strategy
In recent years the Company has changed the focus of its original strategy from App based revenue to revenue generated from several key operational areas.
The Company intends to be a vertically integrated provider of consumer and enterprise technology products and services, which assist consumers, companies, brands and entrepreneurs to effectively transact business, with compliance, in the combined multi-billion-dollar cannabis and CBD hemp industries.
The Company's consumer initiatives are currently centered on education and connecting consumers with various cannabis and CBD hemp businesses. Its enterprise initiatives are focused on developing technology and accounting solutions, coupled with data analytics to help businesses to be more effective in their abilities to connect, market, and sell to consumers.
Over the past several years, ESSI has developed technology and service relationships with those in farming, extraction, manufacturing and distribution in both the cannabis and CBD hemp industries. Along with its subsidiary Ga-Du, ESSI is now able to provide a 360-degree ecosystem for business location, localized communications between consumers and business operators, on-topic social networking, inventory management / selection, payment facilitation and cash management.
* Eco Science Solutions, Inc. is not in the business of growing, manufacturing, or distributing cannabis.
Intellectual Property
The Company has registered and has in process applications for certain Herbo trademarks. There is no other intellectual property.
Government Regulations