(2) On October 20, 2017, a purported shareholder of the Company, Mr. Ian Bell, filed a verified stockholder derivative complaint against the Individual Defendants in the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii (the "First Hawaii Complaint"). On January 11, 2018, a purported shareholder of the Company, Mr. Marc D' Annunzio, filed a verified stockholder derivative complaint against the Individual Defendants in the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii (the "Second Hawaii Complaint"). On February 9, 2018, the Hawaii federal court consolidated the First Hawaii Complaint and the Second Hawaii Complaint (the "Consolidated Hawaii Action"). On December 10, 2018, plaintiffs in the Consolidated Hawaii Action filed their amended complaint (the "Amended Hawaii Complaint"). The Company is identified as a nominal defendant, against which no claims are plead. The Amended Hawaii Complaint arises out of alleged materially false and misleading statements or omissions from SEC filings and/or public statements by or on behalf of the Company. The Amended Hawaii Complaint asserts claims on behalf of the Company for breach of fiduciary duty against the Taylors and Mr. Lewis and Mr. Oveson, for aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duties against Mr. Lewis and Mr. Oveson, for aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duties against Mr. Giguiere, for waste of corporate assets against the Individual Defendants, and for unjust enrichment against the Individual Defendants. The Amended Hawaii Complaint seeks damages for the alleged breaches of fiduciary duties, aiding and abetting, waste and unjust enrichment, demands restitution and disgorgement and requests an order directing the Company and all individual defendants to take all necessary actions to reform and improve the Company's corporate governance in order to avoid any alleged future harm to the Company. The Parties have agreed to mediate the potential resolution of all claims with U.S. Magistrate Judge Wes R. Porter on December 3, 2019 in Honolulu. The Parties have agreed to continue their settlement discussions, which are ongoing, in good faith. There is no guarantee that the claims will be settled.
(3) On November 3, 2017, a purported shareholder of the Company, Mr. Hans Menos, filed a verified shareholder derivative complaint against the Individual Defendants in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada (the "Nevada Federal Complaint"). Mr. Menos amended the Nevada Federal Complaint on December 21, 2018. The Company is identified as a nominal defendant, against which no claims are plead. The Nevada Federal Complaint arises out of alleged materially false and misleading statements or omissions from SEC filings and/or public statements by or on behalf of Company. The Nevada Federal Complaint asserts claims on behalf of the Company for breach of fiduciary duties against the Individual Defendants, for aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duties against Mr. Giguiere, Mr. Lewis and Mr. Oveson, unjust enrichment against the Individual Defendants, waste of corporate assets against the Individual Defendants, abuse of control against the Individual Defendants, and gross mismanagement against the Individual Defendants. The Nevada Federal Complaint (I) seeks judicial declarations that (i) Mr. Menos may maintain this action on behalf of the Company and (ii) the Individual Defendants have breached and/or aided and abetted the breach of their fiduciary duties to the Company; (2) seeks damages to the Company allegedly sustained as a result of the acts/omissions of the Individual Defendants; (3) seeks an order directing the Company and the Individual Defendants to take all necessary actions to reform and improve the Company's corporate governance in order to avoid any alleged future harm to the Company. On March 2, 2020, the parties to the Nevada Federal Complaint stipulated to the dismissal thereof, which the Court approved on March 3, 2020.
(4) On February 1, 2019, the lead plaintiff, Mr. Richard Raschke, a purported shareholder of the Company, filed an amended consolidated class action complaint against the Company, the Taylors, and Mr. Gannon Giguiere in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey (the "Class Action"). The Class Action arises out of alleged materially false and misleading statements or omissions from SEC filings and/or public statements by or on behalf of Company. The Class Action asserts claims against all defendants for violation of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Act"), violation of Section 20(a) of the Act against the Taylors and Giguiere and Violation of Section 20(b) against Mr. Giguiere. The Class Action seeks (1) certification of the purported class of plaintiffs, (2) compensatory damages in favor of the class and (3) an award of reasonable costs and expenses. Defendants have moved to stay this action. By consent of the parties, the Court has agreed to suspend this matter pending resolution of the consolidated derivative action in Hawaii.
(5) Although the following lawsuit was not filed against the Company or any of its officers or directors, it nonetheless has a huge impact on the Company. On July 6, 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") filed a Complaint against Gannon Giguiere ("Giguiere"), president of Phenix Ventures, LLC and the Company's largest outside funder. The Complaint alleges Mr. Giguiere's involvement in certain activities, of which the Company, its' officers, board members, and others directly involved with the Company, have no knowledge of. The Complaint seeks monetary and injunctive relief. On October 24, 2018, the Court granted the U.S. Government's motion to intervene in the proceedings and stay the action pending resolution of parallel criminal proceedings (described below). Pursuant to the Complaint being filed, the Company continues to seek funding elsewhere as it requires outside funding until it generates more consistent revenue. The Company previously filed an S-1 Registration Statement whereby Phenix would fund the Company in exchange for shares of common stock, and upon Put Notices; to date, there have been no Put Notices and no funds from Phenix Ventures have been distributed to the Company under the registration statement - no shares have been issued pursuant to the Registration Statement.
(6) On June 29, 2018, the United States Government filed an indictment as to Gannon Giguiere in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California. In a Superseding Indictment, filed on January 25, 2019, the United States alleges that the defendant engaged in a scheme to manipulate the market for the common stock of two penny stock issuers, including ESSI. The United States claims that Mr. Giguiere is guilty of (1) conspiracy to commit securities fraud and manipulative trading and (2) securities fraud. On April 22, 2019, Mr. Giguiere entered a plea of not guilty to each of the counts against him in the Superseding Indictment. On July 23, 2019, defendant entered into a Plea Agreement (the “Plea”) with the Government wherein defendant plead guilty to one charge of conspiracy. Under the Plea, the Government agreed to dismiss and to not prosecute in the future, the remaining charges including, but not limited to, all charges relating to ESSI when defendant is sentenced. The sentencing hearing is currently set for September 21, 2020.
(7) On September 10, 2018 the Company received a Letter of Summons and Notice of Complaint from Wendy Maguire, Vice President of Business Development for Ga Du Corporation, filed in the United States District Court from the Western District of Washington on September 4, 2018 and naming the Company, its subsidiary Ga Du Corporation and two of the Company's officers as Defendants. The Claims filed under the Complaint include payment of accrued and unpaid wages, legal fees and damages. The Company has filed its Answer. Plaintiff filed a Motion for Summary Judgment on March 14, 2019 on her statutory claim for unpaid wages and on her claim for breach of employment contract. The motion has been fully briefed. On May 13, 2020, plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment as to the personal liability of corporate officers of ESSI and Ga-Du under the Washington Wage Rebate Act was Granted. Corporate officers of ESSI and its subsidiary Ga-Du are jointly and severally liable (along with ESSI and its wholly-owned subsidiary Ga-Du) for $240,000 in unpaid wages, another $240,000 in exemplary damages, attorney’s fees, and prejudgment interest. Defendants’ cross-motions regarding personal liability was denied.
The Company is vigorously defending all of the aforementioned lawsuits where the action has yet to be adjudicated, dismissed or judgement entered. The successful defense of any of the outstanding lawsuits is undeterminable at this time, as are the extent of any possible damages.
Other than as set out above, the Company knows of no material, existing or pending legal proceedings against it, nor is the Company involved as a plaintiff in any material proceeding or pending litigation. There are no proceedings in which its director, officer or any affiliates, or any registered or beneficial shareholder, is an adverse party or has a material interest adverse to its interest.
ITEM 4.
section_4: ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable
PART II
ITEM 5.
section_5: ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
Market Information
Our Company commenced quotation on the OTC Markets on September 14, 2010. From September 14, 2010, through May 3, 2013, our common stock was quoted on the OTC Markets under the name "Pristine Solutions, Inc." From May 3, 2013, until February 18, 2014, our Company was quoted on the OTC Markets under the name "Eaton Scientific Systems, Inc." From February 18, 2014, to February 2017, our common stock was quoted on the OTC Pink Markets under the name "Eco Science Solutions, Inc. and under the symbol "ESSI"; from February 2017 to May 2017 our Company was quoted on the OTCMarkets: QB under the symbol "ESSI". During May 2017 the trading of ESSI shares on the public exchanges was suspended, and although the suspension has been lifted, a Form 15c2-11 with current information must be filed with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) prior to the caveat emptor status being lifted. At that time we will need to re-apply to be quoted on the OTCMarkets: QB.
The following table sets forth, for the quarters indicated, the high and low closing bid prices per share of our common stock on Yahoo Finance, reported by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Composite Feed or other qualified interdealer quotation medium. Such quotations reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission, and may not represent actual transactions.
The Company's common stock is subject to rules adopted by the Commission regulating broker dealer practices in connection with transactions in "penny stocks." Those disclosure rules applicable to "penny stocks" require a broker dealer, prior to a transaction in a "penny stock" not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized list disclosure document prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission. That disclosure document advises an investor that investment in "penny stocks" can be very risky and that the investor's salesperson or broker is not an impartial advisor but rather paid to sell the shares. The disclosure contains further warnings for the investor to exercise caution in connection with an investment in "penny stocks," to independently investigate the security, as well as the salesperson with whom the investor is working and to understand the risky nature of an investment in this security. The broker dealer must also provide the customer with certain other information and must make a special written determination that the "penny stock" is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. Further, the rules require that, following the proposed transaction, the broker provide the customer with monthly account statements containing market information about the prices of the securities.
These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for its common stock. Many brokers may be unwilling to engage in transactions in its common stock because of the added disclosure requirements, thereby making it more difficult for stockholders to dispose of their shares.
On June 24, 2020, the last reported sales price of our common stock as reported by Yahoo Finance was $0.03
Record Holders