BS MBA • Management, Finance, and Accounting
Mr. Oveson started his career as a Financial Analyst with Suite Thinking, Inc., a boutique hospitality consulting firm in Newport Beach, CA. There Mr. Oveson developed systems and processes used to analyze dozens of hotels part of a $500 million+ portfolio in various financial and operational categories still in use in the hospitality industry today.
Upon completion of his MBA at Pepperdine University Mr. Oveson has taken CEO, COO, CFO, and CIO roles in hospitality, the aerospace, manufacturing, brokerage, action sports, telecommunications, and the banking and healthcare technology industries. His range of experience includes all aspects of management for start-up and mid-tier companies both public and private entities. He has led dozens of full financial audits and reviews and has also led numerous PCI audits and MasterCard RAMP reviews. He has been instrumental in projects as diverse as the first and largest prepaid CLEC in the State of California to building out and growing the first financial data center on the island of Antigua.
Mr. Oveson is currently involved in financial processing projects in Europe, Canada, and the US as well as assisting with the development of Ga-Du Corporation's enterprise solutions and operations.
Michael D. Rountree
Mr. Rountree is the Founder and President of Rountree Consulting, which he formed in 1997. He is a certified public accountant as well as a business and financial manager and advisor, providing financial, strategy, and business consulting services to clients with the goal of increasing sales and growing revenue, while also actively lowering expenses while streamlining operational efficiencies. Mr. Rountree spent 3 years with Deloitte and Touche, as well as Price Waterhouse, working on multi-state tax and financial accounting engagements for large Fortune 500 and Global 2000 clients. Mr. Rountree also spent 3 years at the State of California Franchise Tax Board. His initial work was with the traditional corporate and individual audit group, but he was quickly promoted to the forensics audit practice where he handled complex financial, tax and audit engagements.
Mr. Rountree holds a BS degree with an emphasis in Accountancy from C.S.U Long Beach and a Masters in Business Taxation from the Leventhal School of Accounting at the University Southern of California.
Identification of Significant Employees
None
Family Relationships
Our directors and officers, Jeffery Taylor and Don Lee Taylor, are brothers. The Company currently has a Consulting Agreement with Jennifer Taylor, Jeff and Don's sister.
Involvement in Certain Legal Proceedings
Except as otherwise disclosed herein, our directors and executive officers have not been involved in any of the following events during the past ten years:
1.
any bankruptcy petition filed by or against such person or any business of which such person was a general partner or executive officer either at the time of the bankruptcy or within two years prior to that time;
2.
any conviction in a criminal proceeding or being subject to a pending criminal proceeding (excluding traffic violations and other minor offenses);
3.
being subject to any order, judgment, or decree, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, of any court of competent jurisdiction, permanently or temporarily enjoining, barring, suspending or otherwise limiting his involvement in any type of business, securities or banking activities;
4.
being found by a court of competent jurisdiction (in a civil action), the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to have violated a federal or state securities or commodities law, and the judgment has not been reversed, suspended, or vacated;
5.
being the subject of, or a party to, any federal or state judicial or administrative order, judgment, decree, or finding, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, relating to an alleged violation of: (i) any federal or state securities or commodities law or regulation; or (ii) any law or regulation respecting financial institutions or insurance companies including, but not limited to, a temporary or permanent injunction, order of disgorgement or restitution, civil money penalty or temporary or permanent cease- and-desist order, or removal or prohibition order; or (iii) any law or regulation prohibiting mail or wire fraud or fraud in connection with any business entity; or
6.
being the subject of, or a party to, any sanction or order, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, of any self-regulatory organization (as defined in Section 3(a)(26) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), any registered entity (as defined in Section 1(a)(29) of the Commodity Exchange Act), or any equivalent exchange, association, entity or organization that has disciplinary authority over its members or persons associated with a member.
(1) On July 7, 2017, a purported shareholder of Eco Science Solutions, Inc. (the "Company"), Mr. Jimmie Glorioso, filed a verified shareholder derivative complaint against Jeffrey L. Taylor, Don L. Taylor (collectively, Jeffrey and Don Taylor are the "Taylors"), L. John Lewis and S. Randall Oveson, directors and officers in the Company, and Gannon Giguiere (collectively, the Taylors, Lewis, Oveson and Giguiere are the "Individual Defendants"), in the First Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada, Carson City County (the "Nevada Complaint"). Mr. Glorioso filed an amended complaint on or about January 11, 2019. The Company is identified as a nominal defendant, against which no claims are plead. The Nevada Complaint arises out of alleged materially false and misleading statements or omissions from SEC filings and/or public statements by or on behalf of Company. The Nevada Complaint asserts claims on behalf of the Company for breach of fiduciary duties against the Individual Defendants, aiding and abetting the breach of fiduciary duties against Lewis, Oveson and Giguiere, against the Individual Defendants for waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment against the Individual Defendants. The Nevada Complaint (1) seeks judicial declarations that (i) Mr. Glorioso may maintain this action on behalf of the Company and (ii) all individual defendants have breached and/or aided and abetted the breach of their fiduciary duties to the Company; (2) seeks damages to the Company allegedly sustained as a result of the acts/omissions of all individual defendants; (3) seeks an order directing the Company and all individual defendants to take all necessary actions to reform and improve the Company's corporate governance in order to avoid any alleged future harm to the Company.
(2) On October 20, 2017, a purported shareholder of the Company, Mr. Ian Bell, filed a verified stockholder derivative complaint against the Individual Defendants in the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii (the "First Hawaii Complaint"). On January 11, 2018, a purported shareholder of the Company, Mr. Marc D' Annunzio, filed a verified stockholder derivative complaint against the Individual Defendants in the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii (the "Second Hawaii Complaint"). On February 9, 2018, the Hawaii federal court consolidated the First Hawaii Complaint and the Second Hawaii Complaint (the "Consolidated Hawaii Action"). On December 10, 2018, plaintiffs in the Consolidated Hawaii Action filed their amended complaint (the "Amended Hawaii Complaint"). The Company is identified as a nominal defendant, against which no claims are plead. The Amended Hawaii Complaint arises out of alleged materially false and misleading statements or omissions from SEC filings and/or public statements by or on behalf of the Company. The Amended Hawaii Complaint asserts claims on behalf of the Company for breach of fiduciary duty against the Taylors and Mr. Lewis and Mr. Oveson, for aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duties against Mr. Lewis and Mr. Oveson, for aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duties against Mr. Giguiere, for waste of corporate assets against the Individual Defendants, and for unjust enrichment against the Individual Defendants. The Amended Hawaii Complaint seeks damages for the alleged breaches of fiduciary duties, aiding and abetting, waste and unjust enrichment, demands restitution and disgorgement and requests an order directing the Company and all individual defendants to take all necessary actions to reform and improve the Company's corporate governance in order to avoid any alleged future harm to the Company. The Parties have agreed to mediate the potential resolution of all claims with U.S. Magistrate Judge Wes R. Porter on December 3, 2019 in Honolulu. The Parties have agreed to continue their settlement discussions, which are ongoing, in good faith. There is no guarantee that the claims will be settled.
(3) On November 3, 2017, a purported shareholder of the Company, Mr. Hans Menos, filed a verified shareholder derivative complaint against the Individual Defendants in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada (the "Nevada Federal Complaint"). Mr. Menos amended the Nevada Federal Complaint on December 21, 2018. The Company is identified as a nominal defendant, against which no claims are plead. The Nevada Federal Complaint arises out of alleged materially false and misleading statements or omissions from SEC filings and/or public statements by or on behalf of Company. The Nevada Federal Complaint asserts claims on behalf of the Company for breach of fiduciary duties against the Individual Defendants, for aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duties against Mr. Giguiere, Mr. Lewis and Mr. Oveson, unjust enrichment against the Individual Defendants, waste of corporate assets against the Individual Defendants, abuse of control against the Individual Defendants, and gross mismanagement against the Individual Defendants. The Nevada Federal Complaint (I) seeks judicial declarations that (i) Mr. Menos may maintain this action on behalf of the Company and (ii) the Individual Defendants have breached and/or aided and abetted the breach of their fiduciary duties to the Company; (2) seeks damages to the Company allegedly sustained as a result of the acts/omissions of the Individual Defendants; (3) seeks an order directing the Company and the Individual Defendants to take all necessary actions to reform and improve the Company's corporate governance in order to avoid any alleged future harm to the Company. On March 2, 2020, the parties to the Nevada Federal Complaint stipulated to the dismissal thereof, which the Court approved on March 3, 2020.
(4) On February 1, 2019, the lead plaintiff, Mr. Richard Raschke, a purported shareholder of the Company, filed an amended consolidated class action complaint against the Company, the Taylors, and Mr. Gannon Giguiere in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey (the "Class Action"). The Class Action arises out of alleged materially false and misleading statements or omissions from SEC filings and/or public statements by or on behalf of Company. The Class Action asserts claims against all defendants for violation of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Act"), violation of Section 20(a) of the Act against the Taylors and Giguiere and Violation of Section 20(b) against Mr. Giguiere. The Class Action seeks (1) certification of the purported class of plaintiffs, (2) compensatory damages in favor of the class and (3) an award of reasonable costs and expenses. Defendants have moved to stay this action. By consent of the parties, the Court has agreed to suspend this matter pending resolution of the consolidated derivative action in Hawaii.