The preparation of financial statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Company regularly evaluates estimates and assumptions related to long-lived assets and deferred income tax asset valuation allowances. The Company bases its estimates and assumptions on current facts, historical experience and various other factors that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the accrual of costs and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. The actual results experienced by the Company may differ materially and adversely from the Company's estimates. To the extent there are material differences between the estimates and the actual results, future results of operations will be affected.
Advertising and Marketing Costs
Advertising and marketing costs are expensed as incurred and were $49,099 during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 and $942,021 in the same period ended January 31, 2019. Advertising and marketing costs include ad placement and click through programs placed on a wide network of mediums acquired from advertising consolidators including Outbrain, MGID, Rev Content, Yahoo, MSN, AOL, Google and others for the full scope of the Company's brands including the Herbo app and enterprise software for all platforms, GooglePlay, iOS, Android, as well as the corporate e-commence site and all the other underlying supporting social media platforms such as YouTube, Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook. Further the Company incurs other advertising expense in respect to its attendance at various venues to promote our business objectives.
Revenue Recognition
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASC 606 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Under ASC 606, the Company recognizes revenue from licensing agreements and contracts by applying the following steps: (1) identify the contract with a customer; (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determine the transaction price; (4) allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract; and (5) recognize revenue when each performance obligation is satisfied. For the comparative periods, revenue has not been adjusted and continues to be reported under ASC 605 - Revenue Recognition. Under ASC 605, revenue is recognized when the following criteria are met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) the performance of service has been rendered to a customer or delivery has occurred; (3) the amount of fee to be paid by a customer is fixed and determinable; and (4) the collectability of the fee is reasonably assured.
$59,729 has been recognized as revenue in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020, with $0 revenue in the same period ended January 31, 2019. Revenue generated under enterprise software licenses will be recorded in accordance with the terms of the individual Customer contracts. We expect license fees will be recorded on a monthly basis over the term of the contract, activation fees will be earned upon completion of set up and installation of the enterprise software, and customization and/or professional consulting services will be earned as rendered.
While the Company has entered into an LMMA (re: Note 6) under which we are entitled to fee-based revenue on a profit-sharing basis from a financial services platform known as eXPOTM, the Company has determined that when recording its revenue, the monthly income is not clearly determinable until the fees are actually paid to the Company by AFN. As at October 31, 2018 fees payable by AFN for the period May through October 2018 as reconciled in commission reports received from AFN have not been received by the Company. Subsequently the operations were suspended through August 2019, during which time AFN solidified its’ primary banking relationship and is now able to service and scale as needed with the client’s needs. While AFN re-commenced operating the eXPOTM platform during August 2019, Ga-Du does not yet have any additional revenue allocations. Presently AFN is growing exclusively on a Member referral basis. We expect revenue from this agreement to resume during fiscal 2021. The Company has determined to record its revenue in respect to the LMMA upon receipt until such time as the fee structure and reporting process become more easily determinable. Pursuant to AFN's revenue reports, the amount payable to Ga-Du Corporation is $28,431 (10% of net revenue generated by Colorado Business) at January 31, 2020 and January 31, 2019. The Company will record the revenue once we receive the proceeds.
Cost of Revenue
Costs of revenue consist of the direct expenses incurred to generate revenue. Such costs are recorded as incurred. Our cost of revenue will consist consists primarily of fees associated with the operation of our social media venues and fulfillment of specific customer advertising campaigns related to our downloadable apps. In the case of revenue earned by our wholly owned subsidiary, proceeds allocated to our revenue interest are net of associated costs.
Stock-Based Compensation
The Company records stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718, Share-Based Payments, using the fair value method. All transactions in which goods or services are the consideration received for the issuance of equity instruments are accounted for based on the fair value of the consideration received or the fair value of the equity instrument issued, whichever is more reliably measurable. Equity instruments issued to employees and the cost of the services received as consideration are measured and recognized based on the fair value of the equity instruments issued.
Convertible Debt and Beneficial Conversion Features
The Company evaluates embedded conversion features within convertible debt under ASC 815 "Derivatives and Hedging" to determine whether the embedded conversion feature(s) should be bifurcated from the host instrument and accounted for as a derivative at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in earnings. If the conversion feature does not require derivative treatment under ASC 815, the instrument is evaluated under ASC 470-20 "Debt with Conversion and Other Options" for consideration of any beneficial conversion features.
Stock Settled Debt
In certain instances, the Company will issue convertible notes which contain a provision in which the price of the conversion feature is priced at a fixed discount to the trading price of the Company's common shares as traded in the over-the-counter market. In these instances, the Company records a liability, in addition to the principal amount of the convertible note, as stock-settled debt for the fixed value transferred to the convertible note holder from the fixed discount conversion feature. As of January 31, 2020, and January 31, 2019, $248,432 for the value of the stock settled debt for certain convertible notes is included in the Convertible note, net account under balance sheet. (see Note 10).
Recently issued accounting pronouncements
The Company has reviewed other recently issued accounting pronouncements and plans to adopt those that are applicable to it. The Company does not expect the adoption of any other pronouncements to have an impact on its results of operations or financial position.
ITEM 7A.
section_7A: ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
As a "smaller reporting company", the Company is not required to provide the information required by this Item.
ITEM 8.
section_8: ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The Company's consolidated audited financial statements are stated in United States dollars (US$) and are prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The consolidated audited financial statements are filed as part of this annual report starting on page.
ECO SCIENCE SOLUTIONS, INC.
AUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the Fiscal Years Ended January 31, 2020 and 2019
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the shareholders and the board of directors of Eco Science Solutions, Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Eco Science Solutions, Inc. as of January 31, 2020 and 2019, the related statements of operations, stockholders' equity (deficit), and cash flows for the years then ended, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of January 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) ("PCAOB") and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of our audits we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
Our audit included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audit also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Substantial Doubt about the Company’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Company has suffered recurring losses from operations and has a significant accumulated deficit. In addition, the Company continues to experience negative cash flows from operations. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. Management's plans in regard to these matters are also described in Note 1. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty.
/S/ BF Borgers CPA PC
BF Borgers CPA PC
We have served as the Company's auditor since 2016
Lakewood, CO
July 6, 2020
ECO
SCIENCE SOLUTIONS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these audited condensed consolidated financial statements
ECO SCIENCE SOLUTIONS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these audited consolidated financial statements
ECO SCIENCE SOLUTIONS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' DEFICIT
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these audited consolidated financial statements
ECO SCIENCE SOLUTIONS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these audited consolidated financial statements
ECO SCIENCE SOLUTIONS, INC.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 1: NATURE OF BUSINESS AND CONTINUANCE OF OPERATIONS
Organization and nature of business
The Company was incorporated in the state of Nevada on December 8, 2009 under the name Pristine Solutions, Inc. On January 8, 2014, the Company changed its name from Pristine Solutions, Inc. to Eco Science Solutions, Inc.
During fiscal 2016 the Company changed its business focus to pursue eco-friendly consumer related technologies, software and applications.