(5) Although the following lawsuit was not filed against the Company or any of its officers or directors, it nonetheless has a huge impact on the Company. On July 6, 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") filed a Complaint against Gannon Giguiere ("Giguiere"), president of Phenix Ventures, LLC and the Company's largest outside funder. The Complaint alleges Mr. Giguiere's involvement in certain activities, of which the Company, its' officers, board members, and others directly involved with the Company, have no knowledge of. The Complaint seeks monetary and injunctive relief. On October 24, 2018, the Court granted the U.S. Government's motion to intervene in the proceedings and stay the action pending resolution of parallel criminal proceedings (described below). Pursuant to the Complaint being filed, the Company continues to seek funding elsewhere as it requires outside funding until it generates more consistent revenue. The Company previously filed an S-1 Registration Statement whereby Phenix would fund the Company in exchange for shares of common stock, and upon Put Notices; to date, there have been no Put Notices and no funds from Phenix Ventures have been distributed to the Company under the registration statement - no shares have been issued pursuant to the Registration Statement.
(6) On June 29, 2018, the United States Government filed an indictment as to Gannon Giguiere in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California. In a Superseding Indictment, filed on January 25, 2019, the United States alleges that the defendant engaged in a scheme to manipulate the market for the common stock of two penny stock issuers, including ESSI. The United States claims that Mr. Giguiere is guilty of (1) conspiracy to commit securities fraud and manipulative trading and (2) securities fraud. On April 22, 2019, Mr. Giguiere entered a plea of not guilty to each of the counts against him in the Superseding Indictment. On July 23, 2019, defendant entered into a Plea Agreement (the “Plea”) with the Government wherein defendant plead guilty to one charge of conspiracy. Under the Plea, the Government agreed to dismiss and to not prosecute in the future, the remaining charges including, but not limited to, all charges relating to ESSI when defendant is sentenced. The sentencing hearing is currently set for September 21, 2020.
(7) On September 10, 2018 the Company received a Letter of Summons and Notice of Complaint from Wendy Maguire, Vice President of Business Development for Ga Du Corporation, filed in the United States District Court from the Western District of Washington on September 4, 2018 and naming the Company, its subsidiary Ga Du Corporation and two of the Company's officers as Defendants. The Claims filed under the Complaint include payment of accrued and unpaid wages, legal fees and damages. The Company has filed its Answer. Plaintiff filed a Motion for Summary Judgment on March 14, 2019 on her statutory claim for unpaid wages and on her claim for breach of employment contract. The motion has been fully briefed. On May 13, 2020, plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment as to the personal liability of corporate officers of ESSI and Ga-Du under the Washington Wage Rebate Act was Granted. Corporate officers of ESSI and its subsidiary Ga-Du are jointly and severally liable (along with ESSI and its wholly-owned subsidiary Ga-Du) for $240,000 in unpaid wages, another $240,000 in exemplary damages, attorney’s fees, and prejudgment interest. Defendants’ cross-motions regarding personal liability was denied.
The Company is vigorously defending all of the aforementioned lawsuits where the action has yet to be adjudicated, dismissed or judgement entered. The successful defense of any of the outstanding lawsuits is undeterminable at this time, as are the extent of any possible damages.
Other than as set out above, the Company knows of no material, existing or pending legal proceedings against it, nor is the Company involved as a plaintiff in any material proceeding or pending litigation. There are no proceedings in which its director, officer or any affiliates, or any registered or beneficial shareholder, is an adverse party or has a material interest adverse to its interest.
Audit Committee and Audit Committee Financial Expert
The Company does not have an audit committee. We are not a "listed company" under SEC rules and are therefore not required to have an audit committee comprised of independent directors.
We do not currently have a "financial expert" within the meaning of the rules and regulations of the SEC.
The Company has no nominating or compensation committees at this time. The entire Board participates in the nomination and audit oversight processes and considers executive and director compensation. Given the size of the Company and its stage of development, the entire Board is involved in such decision-making processes. Thus, there is a potential conflict of interest in that our directors and officers have the authority to determine issues concerning management compensation, nominations, and audit issues that may affect management decisions. We are not aware of any other conflicts of interest with any of our executive officers or directors.
Code of Ethics
The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics within the meaning of Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Code of Ethics applies to directors and senior officers, such as the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, controller, and persons performing similar functions.
Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports
Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires our executive officers and directors, and persons who beneficially own more than 10% percent of our equity securities ("Reporting Persons") to file reports of ownership and changes in ownership with the SEC. Based solely on our review of copies of such reports and representations from the Reporting Persons, we believe that during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020, the Reporting Persons timely filed all such reports.
ITEM 11.
section_11: ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
Summary Compensation Table
The table below summarizes the compensation paid by the Company to the following persons:
(a)
its principal executive officer;
(b)
each of the Company's two most highly compensated executive officers who were serving as executive officers at the end of the years ended January 31, 2020 and 2019; and
(c)
up to two additional individuals for whom disclosure would have been provided under (b) but for the fact that the individual was not serving as the Company's executive officer at the end of the years ended January 31, 2020 and 2019.
No disclosure is provided for any named executive officer, other than the Company's principal executive officers, whose total compensation did not exceed $100,000 for the respective fiscal year:
[1]
Mr. Jeffery Taylor was appointed CEO and President on December 17, 2015. During fiscal 2020 and 2019 Mr. Taylor received payments of181,019 and $57,000, respectively to reduce his current salary accruals and prior unpaid salary amounts.
[2]
Mr. Don Lee Taylor was appointed CFO on December 17, 2015. During fiscal 2020 and 2019 Mr. Taylor received payments of $10,500 and $57,000, respectively to reduce his current salary accruals and prior unpaid salary amounts.
[3]
Michael D. Rountree was appointed COO of the Company on June 21, 2017. Under the terms of an Employment agreement with Mr. Rountree he charged the Company $120,000 for services during each of fiscal 2020 and 2019, all of which remains unpaid.
[4]
L. John Lewis was appointed a director of ESSI and CEO of Ga-Du Corporation on June 21, 2017. He also serves as the President, Secretary, Treasurer and Director since inception of Ga-Du on June 2, 2017. He resigned from all positions with ESSI and Ga-Du effective April 15, 2020. Under the terms of an Employment agreement with Mr. Lewis he charged the Company $40,000 for services during fiscal 2020 and $120,000 during fiscal 2019, all of which remains unpaid. His employment agreement was not renewed on expiry.
[5]
S. Randall Oveson was appointed a director of ESSI and COO of Ga-Du Corporation on June 21, 2017. Under the terms of an Employment agreement with Mr. Oveson he charged the Company $40,000 for services during fiscal 2020 and $120,000 during fiscal 2019, all of which remains unpaid. His employment agreement was not renewed on expiry.
Employment Contracts and Termination of Employment and Change in Control Arrangements
On December 21, 2015, the Company entered into employment agreements with Mr. Jeffery Taylor and Mr. Don Lee Taylor for a period of 24 months, where after the contract may be renewed in one-year terms at the election of both parties. Jeffery Taylor shall receive an annual gross salary of $115,000 and Don Lee Taylor shall receive an annual gross salary of $105,000 payable in equal installments on the last day of each calendar month and which may be accrued until such time as the Company has sufficient cash flow to settle amounts payable. Further under the terms of the respective agreements all inventions, innovations, improvements, know-how, plans, development, methods, designs, analyses, specifications, software, drawings, reports and all similar or related information (whether or not patentable or reduced to practice) which relate to any of the Company's actual or proposed business activities and which are created, designed or conceived, developed or made by the Executive during the Executive's past or future employment by the Company or any Affiliates, or any predecessor thereof ("Work Product"), belong to the Company, or its Affiliates, as applicable.
On June 21, 2017, the Company entered into an employment agreement with Michael Rountree whereby Mr. Rountree agreed to serve as the Company's Chief Operating Officer for two years unless terminated earlier in accordance with the agreement. The agreement was renewed upon expiry. During his period of employment, Mr. Rountree has a base salary at an annual rate of $120,000. The Board shall review the Base Salary on an annual basis and may, but is not required to, make upward adjustments from time to time. Salary payable to Mr. Rountree under the employment agreement has been accrued during fiscal 2018, 2019 and 2020 and a total of $320,000 remains payable under the agreement.
On June 21, 2017, Ga-Du entered into an employment agreement with L. John Lewis whereby Mr. Lewis accepted employment as Chief Executive Officer of Ga-Du for two years unless terminated earlier in accordance with the agreement. During his period of employment, Mr. Lewis has a base salary at an annual rate of $120,000. The Board shall review the Base Salary on an annual basis and may, but is not required to, make upward adjustments from time to time. The employment agreement was not renewed on expiry. Salary payable to Mr. Lewis under the employment agreement has been accrued during fiscal 2018 through fiscal 2020 and a total of $240,000 remains unpaid.
On June 21, 2017, Ga-Du entered into an employment agreement with S. Randall Oveson whereby Mr. Oveson accepted employment as Chief Operating Officer of Ga-Du for two years unless terminated earlier in accordance with the agreement. During his period of employment, Mr. Oveson has a base salary at an annual rate of $120,000. The Board shall review the Base Salary on an annual basis and may, but is not required to, make upward adjustments from time to time. The employment agreement was not renewed on expiry. Salary payable to Mr. Oveson under the employment agreement has been accrued during fiscal 2018 through 2020 in the total amount of $240,000, all of which remains unpaid.