(7) On September 10, 2018 the Company received a Letter of Summons and Notice of Complaint from Wendy Maguire, Vice President of Business Development for Ga Du Corporation, filed in the United States District Court from the Western District of Washington on September 4, 2018 and naming the Company, its subsidiary Ga Du Corporation and two of the Company's officers as Defendants. The Claims filed under the Complaint include payment of accrued and unpaid wages, legal fees and damages. The Company has filed its Answer. Plaintiff filed a Motion for Summary Judgment on March 14, 2019 on her statutory claim for unpaid wages and on her claim for breach of employment contract. The motion has been fully briefed. On May 13, 2020, plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment as to the personal liability of corporate officers of ESSI and Ga-Du under the Washington Wage Rebate Act was Granted. Corporate officers of ESSI and its subsidiary Ga-Du are jointly and severally liable (along with ESSI and its wholly-owned subsidiary Ga-Du) for $240,000 in unpaid wages, another $240,000 in exemplary damages, attorney’s fees, and prejudgment interest. Defendants’ cross-motions regarding personal liability was denied.
The Company is vigorously defending all of the aforementioned lawsuits where the action has yet to be adjudicated, dismissed or judgement entered. The successful defense of any of the outstanding lawsuits is undeterminable at this time, as are the extent of any possible damages.
NOTE 15: SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
On April 15, 2020 Mr. L. John Lewis resigned all positions with the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary Ga-Du and also resigned as a director of ESSI.
The Company has evaluated subsequent events from the balance sheet date through the date that the financial statements were issued and determined that there are no additional subsequent events to disclose.
ITEM 9.
section_9: ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None
ITEM 9A.
section_9A: ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Our management, under supervision and with the participation of the Company's Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based upon this evaluation, the Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer concluded that, as of January 31, 2020, because of the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting ("ICFR") described below, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective.
Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that required information to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that required information to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined under Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 14d-14(f). Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can only provide reasonable assurance with respect to financial reporting reliability and financial statement preparation and presentation. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to risk that controls become inadequate because of changes in conditions and that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2020. In making the assessment, management used the criteria issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework 2013. Based on its assessment, management concluded that, as of January 31, 2020, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective and that material weaknesses in ICFR existed as more fully described below.
As defined by Auditing Standard No. 5, "An Audit of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting that is Integrated with an Audit of Financial Statements" established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("PCAOB"), a material weakness is a deficiency or combination of deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. In connection with the assessment described above, management identified the following control deficiencies that represent material weaknesses as of January 31, 2020:
1) Lack of an independent audit committee or audit committee financial expert, and no independent directors. We do not have any members of the Board who are independent directors and we do not have an audit committee. These factors may be counter to corporate governance practices as defined by the various stock exchanges and may lead to less supervision over management;
2) Insufficient written policies and procedures for accounting and financial reporting with respect to the requirements and application of US GAAP and SEC disclosure requirements;
Management's Remediation Initiatives
As of January 31, 2020, management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Based on that evaluation, it was concluded that during the period covered by this report, the internal controls and procedures were not effective due to deficiencies that existed in the design or operation of our internal controls over financial reporting. However, management believes these weaknesses did not have an effect on our financial results. During the course of our evaluation, we did not discover any fraud involving management or any other personnel who play a significant role in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls over financial reporting.
Due to a lack of financial and personnel resources, we are not able to, and do not intend to, immediately take any action to remediate these material weaknesses. We will not be able to do so until, if ever, we acquire sufficient financing and staff to do so. We will implement further controls as circumstances, cash flow, and working capital permits. Notwithstanding the assessment that our ICFR was not effective and that there were material weaknesses as identified in this report, we believe that our financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended January 31, 2020, fairly presents our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the periods covered, as identified, in all material respects.
Management believes that the material weaknesses set forth above were the result of the scale of our operations and intrinsic to our small size. Management also believes that these weaknesses did not have an effect on our financial results.
This Annual Report does not include an attestation report of the Company's registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management's report was not subject to attestation by the Company's registered public accounting firm pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the Company to provide only management's report in this annual report.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
During the period covered by this report, there were no changes (including corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies or material weaknesses) in our internal controls over financial reporting that occurred that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
ITEM 9B.
section_9B: ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION
None.
PART III
ITEM 10.
section_10: ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Identification of Directors and Executive Officers
The following table represents the directors and executive officers of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, as of January 31, 2020:
(1)
Mr. Lewis resigned all positions with ESSI and Ga-Du effective April 15, 2020.
Term of Office
Directors serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders; until their successors are elected or appointed and qualified, or until their prior resignation or removal. Officers serve for such terms as determined by our board of directors. Each officer holds office until such officer's successor is elected or appointed and qualified or until such officer's earlier resignation or removal.
Background and Business Experience
Mr. Jeffery Taylor
As CEO, Mr. Jeffrey Taylor will oversee the company's strategy, technology roadmap, and consumer community content development programs; Mr. Taylor is a recipient of the Army Commendation Medal from the United States Army during service of operation Uphold Democracy; he served in the United States Army for 10 Years and focused on supply chain management technologies with an emphasis on logistics and distribution of specialty materials. Mr. Taylor was discharged with a Medical Discharge; Mr. Taylor has been a real estate entrepreneur and holds a real estate license in the State of Hawaii from 2005 to present. In 2003, Mr. Taylor received his Microsoft technology certification from the Veterans Association during rehabilitation process from being injured in the military. As part of his passion for open water scuba and snorkeling, he launched Liquid Marlin LLC, and works with the Make A Wish Foundation on Maui as one of its designated snorkel instructors.
Mr. Don Lee Taylor
As CFO, Don Taylor will oversee the company's financial governance; business community content development program, and business partnerships. Mr. Taylor holds a real estate license in the State of Hawaii from 2001 to Present; and has been active in the Hawaii real estate and real estate financing community. Mr. Taylor currently holds the title of Broker in Charge of Maui Realty Co., Inc. Mr. Taylor holds a BS in Finance with an emphasis in Financial Management from the California State University in Long Beach.
L. John Lewis
Mr. Lewis graduated Magna Summa Cum Laude from the University of Utah in 1976, with a Bachelor of Science degree in political science, and an international relations certificate. He received a Juris Doctor degree from Stanford Law School in 1979, and was managing director of the Stanford Law Journal. Following law school, Mr. Lewis served as a law clerk on both the United States District Court for the Southern District of California and on the United States Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals.
As a lawyer, Mr. Lewis has represented American Dairies, China Sky One, the Metropolitan Insurance Group, Skaggs-Alpha Beta, and numerous other companies in connection with private and public offerings, and/or mergers with public entities now trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Mr. Lewis departed from the practice of law to become involved in assisting private companies with significant growth trajectories. He has been active in assisting such companies with capital formation, structure and the private equity and business management for approximately the last twenty years as a consultant, legal advisor and/or manger, and has been the General Manager of a household products manufacturing company, the CEO of a nutraceutical company, and the Managing Director of a Swiss based asset management firm, as well as managing a large legal and contracting group for a multi-national NGO. His management duties have run the gamut from managing a small business development group of several individuals to responsibility for hundreds of employees.
Mr. Lewis has served as an instructor of "International Legal and Treaty Conventions", "International Commercial Conflicts" for the United States Army, and was a part time Professor of Business Law at LDS Business College, as well as Visiting Instructor of Business Communications and Entrepreneurship" at the University of Utah.
Mr. Lewis has received the following honorary distinctions: (i) Owl and Key; (ii) Pi Sigma Alpha; and (iii) Who's Who in American Law. Mr Lewis resigned from the board of directors and all officer positions with Ga-Du effective April 15, 2020.
S Randall Oveson