The Company recorded interest expense of $249,962 and $586,702 in respect of certain convertible notes and other loan agreements, respectively during fiscal 2020 and 2019, including amortization of debt discount of $371,969 during fiscal 2019, with no similar expense in the current fiscal year. During fiscal 2020 the Company recorded bad debt of $127,833 with respect to a loan receivable which remained uncollected with no comparable expense if fiscal 2019. Interest income recorded in fiscal 2020 and 2019 totaled $9,000 and $12,000, respectively.
The net loss in fiscal 2020 totaled $1,866,630 as compared to $4,782,903 in fiscal 2019.
The Company used net cash in operations of $787,142 and $2,416,138 respectively during the twelve-month periods ended January 31, 2020 and 2019, recorded $Nil in both years as net cash used for investing activities and received cash from financing activities of $788,410 and $2,415,645, predominantly as a result of certain notes payable, as well as proceeds from related party loans.
Plan of Operation
The Company changed the focus of its business at the close of fiscal 2016 to operate in the eco friendly technology sector using social media sites and offering apps to generate advertising revenues and download fees, and to development certain enterprise software for the cannabis industry. During fiscal 2017 the Company laid the groundwork for income generation from these services by investing in ongoing development of its applications, websites and visibility in both the local and global market. The Company has invested heavily in advertising to allow its applications and ecommerce website visibility on a global stage. During fiscal 2018 we further added to our business portfolio with the acquisition of Ga-Du corporation and the entry into a licensing and marketing agreement that should see the Company generating revenues future fiscal periods. A series of beta tests on the eXPOTM platform between March and October 2018 generated revenues of $28,431 for ESSI which will be recorded upon receipt from AFN. Subsequently the operations were suspended through August 2019, during which time AFN solidified its’ primary banking relationship and is now able to service and scale as needed with the client’s needs. While AFN re-commenced operating the eXPOTM platform during August 2019, Ga-Du does not yet have any additional revenue allocations. Presently AFN is growing exclusively on a Member referral basis. We expect revenue from this agreement to resume during fiscal 2021.
Fiscal 2020 brought our first revenues from our Herbo enterprise software and we expect to see increasing revenues from this suite of services as we focus on marketing to a larger client base. The Company's need for ongoing capital by way of loans, sale of equity and/or convertible notes is expected to continue during the current fiscal year until we can establish substantive revenues from operations to cover all operational overhead. We have also had to rely heavily on loans from related parties in our most recently completed fiscal year as we work to have our shares returned for quotation to the OTCMarkets QB. There are no assurances additional capital will be available to the Company on acceptable terms or that this equity line will be available to us when needed.
Future funding could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could materially adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Any future funding might require the Company to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which might not be available on terms favorable to the Company, or at all, and such financing, if available, might be dilutive.
Going Concern
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which implies that the Company will continue to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business. The Company has not generated significant revenues to date and has never paid any dividends and is unlikely to pay dividends or generate significant earnings in the immediate or foreseeable future. As at January 31, 2020, the Company had a working capital deficit of $11,247,723 and an accumulated deficit of $73,048,082. The continuation of the Company as a going concern is dependent upon the continued financial support from its shareholders, the ability to raise equity or debt financing, and the attainment of profitable operations from the Company's future business. These factors raise substantial doubt regarding the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.
The recent COVID-19 pandemic could have an adverse impact on the Company going forward. COVID-19 has caused significant disruptions to the global financial markets, which may severely impact the Company’s ability to raise additional capital and to pursue certain planned business activities. The Company may be required to cease operations if it is unable to finance its’ operations. The full impact of the COVID-19 outbreak continues to evolve as of the date of this report and is highly uncertain and subject to change. Management is actively monitoring the situation but given the daily evolution of the COVID-19 outbreak, the Company is not able to estimate the effects of the COVID-19 outbreak on its operations or financial condition in the next 12 months. There are no assurances that the Company will be able to meet its obligations, raise funds or continue to implement its planned business objectives to obtain profitable operations.
The consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments consisting of normal recurring adjustments, which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the periods shown. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded assets, or the amounts of and classification of liabilities that might be necessary in the event the Company cannot continue in existence.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
As of January 31, 2019, the Company had total current assets of $59,310, and total current liabilities of $11,307,033. The Company has limited financial resources available outside loans from its officers and directors and funds it has obtained through use of convertible notes and loans from related parties. While the Company entered into an Equity Purchase Agreement to sell up to 10,000,000 shares of our common stock (Ref: Note 12(b)) to the financial statements contained herein) we have been unable to obtain any funding under this agreement in the most recently completed fiscal year. There can be no guarantee the Company will receive proceeds from loans, related party advances or convertible notes sufficient to meet its ongoing operational overheads. While we generated modest revenue in fiscal 2020, we do not yet have resources to meet our operational shortfalls. Without realization of additional capital, it would be unlikely for the Company to continue as a going concern. As noted, additional working capital may be sought through additional debt or equity private placements, additional notes payable to banks or related parties (officers, directors or stockholders), or from other available funding sources at market rates of interest, or a combination of these. The ability to raise necessary financing will depend on many factors, including the nature and prospects of any business to be acquired and the economic and market conditions prevailing at the time financing is sought. During the most recently completed fiscal year management has obtained additional funding with success, however there is no guarantee we will be able to continue to obtain financing if and when required. The current economic downturn may make it difficult to find new capital sources for the Company should they be required.
Future Financings
We anticipate continuing to rely on related party and third-party loans and equity sales of our common shares and/or shares for services rendered in order to continue to fund our business operations in the event of ongoing operational shortfalls. Issuances of additional shares will result in dilution to our existing shareholders. There is no assurance that we will achieve any of additional sales of our equity securities or arrange for debt or other financing to fund our research and development activities.
Revenue
While the Company has entered into an LMMA (re: Note 6 to the financial statements contained herein) under which we are entitled to fee-based revenue on a profit-sharing basis from a financial services platform known as eXPOTM, the Company has determined that when recording its revenue, the monthly income is not clearly determinable until the fees are actually paid to the Company by AFN. As at October 31, 2018 fees payable by AFN for the period March 2018 through October 2018 as reconciled in commission reports received from AFN have not been received by the Company. Subsequently the operations were suspended through August 2019, during which time AFN solidified its’ primary banking relationship and is now able to service and scale as needed with the client’s needs. While AFN re-commenced operating the eXPOTM platform during August 2019, Ga-Du does not yet have any additional revenue allocations. Presently AFN is growing exclusively on a Member referral basis. We expect revenue from this agreement to resume during fiscal 2021. Because of this, the Company has determined to record its revenue in respect to the LMMA upon receipt. In the future, should the fee structure and reporting process become more easily determinable, the recognition method may change. Pursuant to AFN's revenue reports, the amount payable to Ga-Du Corporation is $28,431 (10% of net revenue generated by Colorado Business) January 31, 2020 and 2019. The Company will record the revenue once we receive the proceeds.
During fiscal 2020 we commenced operation of our Herbo enterprise software suite. The Herbo enterprise software is a customizable, all-in-one business software (SaaS) and resource for businesses in the Cannabis and Hemp industries. Herbo provides the software, custom web development, operational training and support needed to plan and manage your Marijuana or CBD business. During fiscal 2020 we recorded gross revenues of $59,729 in respect to the licensing of the software.
Cost of Revenue
Costs of revenue consist of the direct expenses incurred to generate revenue. Such costs are recorded as incurred. Our cost of revenue will consist consists primarily of fees associated with the operation of our social media venues and fulfillment of specific customer advertising campaigns related to our downloadable apps as well as commissions and operational charges related to our Herbo enterprise software. During fiscal 2020 we incurred costs of sales of $36,329 with respect to the licensing of our Herbo software suite. In the case of revenue earned by our wholly owned subsidiary, proceeds allocated to our revenue interest are net of associated costs.
General and Administrative Expenses
Contractual Obligations
As a "smaller reporting company", the Company is not required to provide tabular disclosure obligations.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
The Company has no significant off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on the Company's financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to stockholders.
Critical Accounting Policies
The discussion and analysis of the Company's financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company's consolidated audited financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected by management's application of accounting policies. The Company believes that understanding the basis and nature of the estimates and assumptions involved with the following aspects of the Company's financial statements is critical to an understanding of its consolidated financial statements.
Use of Estimates