On January 11, 2016, the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") authorized the creation of 1,000 shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock. The holder of the shares of the Series A Voting Preferred Stock has the right to vote those shares of the Series A Voting Preferred Stock regarding any matter or action that is required to be submitted to the shareholders of the Company for approval. The vote of each share of the Series A Voting Preferred Stock is equal to and counted as 10 times the votes of all of the shares of the Company's (i) common stock, and (ii) other voting preferred stock issued and outstanding on the date of each and every vote or consent of the shareholders of the Company regarding each and every matter submitted to the shareholders of the Company for approval.
On June 21, 2017, the Company acquired 100% of the shares of capital stock of Ga-Du Corporation (“Ga-Du”), at which time Ga-Du became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Concurrent with the transaction, Mr. John Lewis and Mr. Randall Overton joined the Board of directors of ESSI. Ga-Du offers a Financial Services Platform, as well as Inventory Control and Advisory Software Platforms, and Retail Inventory Control, bringing important enterprise technologies in-house and bringing ESSI an opportunity to expand the reach of its Herbo branding. Subsequently Ga-Du Corporation entered into an Assignment Agreement with G&L Enterprises, wherein G&L Enterprises assigned to Ga-Du Corporation, all of its rights, interest in, and obligations under a License and Master Marketing Agreement (LMMA) it entered into with Alliance Financial Network, Inc. ("AFN").
AFN provides financial and enterprise services to businesses and individuals, including the cannabis industry, on a programmatic or membership basis from which AFN derives fees and income from enrolling companies in their financial program and providing a range of services, with respect to which AFN and Ga-Du derive fees and income on a fee based schedule.
The primary focus of AFN is a mobile application known as eXPO™ electronic eXchange Portal which provides virtual financial and enterprise services to businesses and individuals that are challenged in the traditional banking systems, and/or require more intensive compliance than banks are willing, or able to perform and/or do not have the technical expertise or financial wherewithal in house to develop their own FinTech solutions, including accounting and enterprise management software.
Following the closing of the SPA, Ga-Du is a wholly owned subsidiary of ESSI, bringing to ESSI a Financial Services Platform, and Inventory Control and Advisory Software Platforms, thus completing the ESSI product suite to benefit both consumer and professional customers of the Company.
With the acquisition of Ga-Du, ESSI's product suite expanded to include an enclosed ecosystem for business location, localized communications between consumers and business operators, on-topic social networking, inventory management / selection, payment facilitation and delivery arrangement. The Company's holistic commerce and content platform enables health, wellness and alternative medicine enthusiasts to easily locate, access, and connect with others to facilitate the research of and purchasing of eco-science friendly products.
ECO SCIENCE SOLUTIONS, INC.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 1: NATURE OF BUSINESS AND CONTINUANCE OF OPERATIONS (cont'd)
Organization and nature of business (cont'd)
During fiscal 2018 and 2019, as AFN focussed its efforts to expand its eXPOTM banking relationships to support next phase operations, the Company focussed on rolling out its Herbo Enterprise Software and building that user base. The Herbo software provides a point of sale, bookkeeping and banking functions, inventory management and tracking, compliance and reporting, tax and accounting, payroll and HR, ecommerce and payment gateway services and CRM and customer loyalty functions all under one software suite. During fiscal 2020, the Company entered into various licensing contracts for the Herbo Enterprise Software and has commenced generating revenue from this segment of its operations.
Eco Science Solutions, Inc. is committed to becoming a vertically integrated provider of consumer and enterprise technology products and services, which assist consumers, companies, brands and entrepreneurs to effectively transact business, with compliance, in the combined multi-billion-dollar cannabis and CBD hemp industries.
The Company's consumer initiatives are centered on education and connecting consumers with various cannabis and CBD hemp businesses. Its enterprise initiatives are focused on developing technology and accounting solutions, coupled with data analytics to help businesses to be more effective in their abilities to connect, market, and sell to consumers.
Eco Science Solutions, Inc has technology and service relationships with those in farming, extraction, manufacturing and distribution in both the cannabis and CBD hemp industries. Along with its subsidiary Ga-Du, ESSI is able to provide a 360-degree ecosystem for business location, localized communications between consumers and business operators, on-topic social networking, inventory management / selection, payment facilitation and cash management.
* Eco Science Solutions, Inc. is not in the business of growing, manufacturing, or distributing cannabis.
Going Concern
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which implies that the Company will continue to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business. The Company has not generated significant revenues to date and has never paid any dividends and is unlikely to pay dividends or generate significant earnings in the immediate or foreseeable future. As at January 31, 2020, the Company had a working capital deficit of $11,247,723 and an accumulated deficit of $73,048,082. The continuation of the Company as a going concern is dependent upon the continued financial support from its shareholders, the ability to raise equity or debt financing, and the attainment of profitable operations from the Company's future business. These factors raise substantial doubt regarding the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.
The recent COVID-19 pandemic could have an adverse impact on the Company going forward. COVID-19 has caused significant disruptions to the global financial markets, which may severely impact the Company’s ability to raise additional capital and to pursue certain planned business activities. The Company may be required to cease operations if it is unable to finance its’ operations. The full impact of the COVID-19 outbreak continues to evolve as of the date of this report and is highly uncertain and subject to change. Management is actively monitoring the situation but given the daily evolution of the COVID-19 outbreak, the Company is not able to estimate the effects of the COVID-19 outbreak on its operations or financial condition in the next 12 months. There are no assurances that the Company will be able to meet its obligations, raise funds or continue to implement its planned business objectives to obtain profitable operations.
The consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments consisting of normal recurring adjustments, which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the periods shown. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded assets, or the amounts of and classification of liabilities that might be necessary in the event the Company cannot continue in existence.
NOTE 2: SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
This summary of significant accounting policies is presented to assist in understanding the Company's consolidated financial statements. These accounting policies conform to accounting principles, generally accepted in the United States of America, and have been consistently applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior period's consolidated financial statements to conform to the current period's presentation.
Principals of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Eco Science Solutions, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary, Ga-Du
Corporation. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
ECO SCIENCE SOLUTIONS, INC.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 2: SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont'd)
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Company regularly evaluates estimates and assumptions related to long-lived assets and deferred income tax asset valuation allowances. The Company bases its estimates and assumptions on current facts, historical experience and various other factors that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the accrual of costs and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. The actual results experienced by the Company may differ materially and adversely from the Company's estimates. To the extent there are material differences between the estimates and the actual results, future results of operations will be affected.
Cash and cash equivalents
The Company considers all highly liquid instruments with maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase to be cash equivalents. As of January 31, 2020 and January 31, 2019, respectively, the Company had cash, but no cash equivalents.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment are recorded at cost. Depreciation and amortization on property and equipment are determined using the straight-line method over the three to five year estimated useful lives of the assets.
Technology, licensing rights and software (Intangible assets)
Technology, licensing rights and software are recorded at cost and capitalized and are reviewed for impairment at a minimum of once per year or whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest a need for evaluation. There is no impairment expense for the intangible assets in fiscal year ended January 31, 2020. Impairment expense for the intangible assets in the fiscal year January 31, 2019 was $362,282.
Advertising and Marketing Costs
Advertising and marketing costs are expensed as incurred and were $49,099 during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 and $942,021 in the same period ended January 31, 2019. Advertising and marketing costs include ad placement and click through programs placed on a wide network of mediums acquired from advertising consolidators including Outbrain, MGID, Rev Content, Yahoo, MSN, AOL, Google and others for the full scope of the Company's brands including the Herbo app and enterprise software for all platforms, GooglePlay, iOS, Android, as well as the corporate e-commence site and all the other underlying supporting social media platforms such as YouTube, Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook. Further the Company incurs other advertising expense in respect to its attendance at various venues to promote our business objectives.
Revenue Recognition
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASC 606 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Under ASC 606, the Company recognizes revenue from licensing agreements and contracts by applying the following steps: (1) identify the contract with a customer; (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determine the transaction price; (4) allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract; and (5) recognize revenue when each performance obligation is satisfied. For the comparative periods, revenue has not been adjusted and continues to be reported under ASC 605 - Revenue Recognition. Under ASC 605, revenue is recognized when the following criteria are met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) the performance of service has been rendered to a customer or delivery has occurred; (3) the amount of fee to be paid by a customer is fixed and determinable; and (4) the collectability of the fee is reasonably assured.
ECO SCIENCE SOLUTIONS, INC.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 2: SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont'd)
Revenue Recognition (cont’d)