Cannabis is currently a Schedule I controlled substance under the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) and is, therefore, illegal under federal law. Even in those states in which the use of cannabis has been legalized pursuant to state law, its use, possession or cultivation remains a violation of federal law. A Schedule I controlled substance is defined as one that has no currently accepted medical use in the United States, a lack of safety for use under medical supervision and a high potential for abuse. The U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) defines Schedule I controlled substances as “the most dangerous drugs of all the drug schedules with potentially severe psychological or physical dependence.” If the federal government decides to enforce the CSA, persons that are charged with distributing, possessing with intent to distribute or growing cannabis could be subject to fines and/or terms of imprisonment, the maximum being life imprisonment and a $50 million fine, even though these persons are in compliance with state law.
In light of such conflict between federal laws and state laws regarding cannabis, the previous administration had effectively stated that it was not an efficient use of resources to direct federal law enforcement agencies to prosecute those lawfully abiding by state-designated laws allowing the use and distribution of medical cannabis. Although they have not done so, the current administration could decide to strongly enforce the federal laws applicable to cannabis. See Justice Department Memo on Marijuana Enforcement discussed below. Any such change in the federal government’s enforcement of current federal laws could impact our planned business operation. Because the business activities of businesses, engaged in the medicinal cannabis industry, that we may direct our customers is illegal under federal law, we may be deemed to be aiding and abetting illegal activities through the location services that we provide to our customers, relative to the cannabis industry. As a result, we may be subject to actions by law enforcement authorities, which would materially and adversely affect our business. Legislation is currently pending in the U.S. Congress which would reclassify cannabis from Schedule 1 to Schedule 3. If enacted into law, such change could provide a material benefit to businesses engaged in the cultivation and sale of cannabis, including eligibility for federal tax deductions, access to the banking system and generally de-criminalizing the use or sale of cannabis where it is legal under applicable state laws.
The current administration has indicated that it will closely scrutinize the cannabis industry, in particular, recreational marijuana. While we do not directly engage in the sale or cultivation of cannabis, changes in laws, rules and regulations could have a material adverse or positive effect on our business and financial condition.
Justice Department Memo on Marijuana Enforcement
Because of the inconsistencies in federal and state law, on January 4, 2018, the Department of Justice (DOJ) issued a memo on federal marijuana enforcement policy announcing what it deemed to be a return to the rule of law and the rescission of previous guidance documents which would include the so called Cole Memorandum. Since the passage of the Controlled Substances Act in 1970, Congress has generally prohibited the cultivation, distribution, and possession of marijuana. In the memorandum, the Attorney General directed all U.S. Attorneys to enforce the laws enacted by Congress and to follow well-established principles when pursuing prosecutions related to marijuana activities. The DOJ asserts this return to the rule of law is also a return of trust and local control to federal prosecutors who know where and how to deploy Justice Department resources most effectively to reduce violent crime, stem the tide of the drug crisis, and dismantle criminal gangs.
On April 13, 2018 it was announced that President Donald Trump had promised Senate Republican Cory Gardner that he will support congressional efforts to protect states that have legalized marijuana, defusing a months-long standoff between Sen. Cory Gardner and the administration over Justice Department nominees. Trump told Gardner that despite the DOJ memo of January 4, 2018, the marijuana industry in Colorado will not be targeted. A bill has not been finalized, but discussion has commenced to find legislation that would, in effect, make clear the federal government cannot interfere with states that have voted to legalize marijuana.(1)
(1)https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-gardner-strike-deal-on-legalized-marijuana-ending-standoff-over-justice-nominees/2018/04/13/2ac3b35a-3f3a-11e8-912d-16c9e9b37800_story.html
Industrial Hemp
Industrial hemp is now legal in the U.S., which advocates hope could eventually loosen laws around the popular marijuana extract CBD.
The 2018 farm bill which legalized hemp including a variety of cannabis that does not produce the psychoactive component of marijuana, paved the way to legitimacy for an agricultural sector that has been operating on the fringe of the law. Industrial hemp has made investors and executives swoon because of the potential multibillion-dollar market for cannabidiol, or CBD, a non-psychoactive compound that has started to turn up in beverages, health products and pet snacks, among other products.
Currently, it appears that CBD will remain largely off-limits for ingestible products. The Food and Drug Administration issued a statement saying that despite the new status of hemp, CBD is still considered a drug ingredient and remains illegal to add to food or health products without the agency’s approval, disappointing many hemp advocates, who said they will continue to work to convince the FDA to loosen its CBD rules. The FDA said some hemp ingredients, such as hulled hemp seeds, hemp seed protein and hemp seed oil, are safe in food and won’t require additional approvals.
The farm bill places industrial hemp, which is defined as a cannabis plant with under 0.3% of tetrahydrocannabinol, or THC, under the supervision of the Agriculture Department and removes CBD from the purview of the Controlled Substances Act, which covers marijuana. The law also “explicitly” preserved the Food and Drug Administration’s authority to regulate products containing cannabis, or cannabis-derived compounds.
Facilities
The Company's corporate headquarters are located at 1135 Makawao Avenue, Suite 103-188 Makawao, Hawaii 96768.
Employees
As of January 31, 2020, the Company had 3 employees, inclusive of our executive officers and directors and one special consultant under contract. The Company continues to use independent contractors on an as needed basis with respect to our software development initiatives.
Research and Development
There will be an ongoing requirement to undertake research and development as our existing apps and future apps are presented to the marketplace. During fiscal 2020 and 2019 we expended $157,837 and $657,948 respectively on improvement to our apps, the platform we use to manage our websites, social media and applications and our now commercialized enterprise software.
Reports to Security Holders
The Company is not required to deliver an annual report to its stockholders, but will voluntarily send an annual report, together with the Company's annual audited financial statements upon request. The Company is required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.
The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Company is an electronic filer. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The Internet address of the site is www.sec.gov.
ITEM 1A.
section_1A: ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The Company is a smaller reporting company as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not required to provide the information under this item.
ITEM 1B.
section_1B: ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
ITEM 2.
section_2: ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
The Company's corporate headquarters are located at 1135 Makawao Avenue, Suite 103-188 Makawao, Hawaii 96768. We have entered into a two-year lease commencing April 1, 2016 for a total of 253 square feet of office and 98 square feet of reception space. Monthly base rent for the period April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017 is $526.50 per month and increases to $552.83 per month for the subsequent year ending March 31, 2018. Operating costs for the first year of the lease are estimated at $258.06 per month. The Company has remitted a security deposit in the amount of $817.24 in respect of the lease. Further our officers and directors have executed a personal guarantee in respect of the aforementioned lease agreement. On expiry of the lease, and to date, the Company continues to occupy the space on a month to month basis at a rate of approximately $860 per month including operating costs.
On July 21, 2017, we entered into a Sublease for office space in Seattle, Washington commencing August 1, 2017 and terminating the earlier of (a) March 31, 2020, or (b) the date this sublease is terminated by sub landlord upon the occurrence of an event of default, the sublease covers a total of 6,120 square feet of office space. Monthly base rent for the period September 1, 2017 to July 31, 2018 is $14,535, and the first month of rent is free of charge. In the second year the monthly base rent increases to $15,173. In the third year the monthly base rent increases to $15,810. The Company has remitted a security deposit in the amount of $15,810 in respect of this sublease. The Company has passed on recording the deferred rent relative to the one free month of rent contained within the lease as it has been determined to be immaterial. During the period ended April 30, 2018 the Company accrued rent in respect to this sublease for the months of March and April 2018 including applicable operating costs. During fiscal 2019, the Company has abandoned the space without payment or further accruals, and the lease has been effectively terminated. A balance of $21,051 remains due and payable.
The Company does not own any property.
ITEM 3.
section_3: ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
(1) On July 7, 2017, a purported shareholder of Eco Science Solutions, Inc. (the "Company"), Mr. Jimmie Glorioso, filed a verified shareholder derivative complaint against Jeffrey L. Taylor, Don L. Taylor (collectively, Jeffrey and Don Taylor are the "Taylors"), L. John Lewis and S. Randall Oveson, directors and officers in the Company, and Gannon Giguiere (collectively, the Taylors, Lewis, Oveson and Giguiere are the "Individual Defendants"), in the First Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada, Carson City County (the "Nevada Complaint"). Mr. Glorioso filed an amended complaint on or about January 11, 2019. The Company is identified as a nominal defendant, against which no claims are plead. The Nevada Complaint arises out of alleged materially false and misleading statements or omissions from SEC filings and/or public statements by or on behalf of Company. The Nevada Complaint asserts claims on behalf of the Company for breach of fiduciary duties against the Individual Defendants, aiding and abetting the breach of fiduciary duties against Lewis, Oveson and Giguiere, against the Individual Defendants for waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment against the Individual Defendants. The Nevada Complaint (1) seeks judicial declarations that (i) Mr. Glorioso may maintain this action on behalf of the Company and (ii) all individual defendants have breached and/or aided and abetted the breach of their fiduciary duties to the Company; (2) seeks damages to the Company allegedly sustained as a result of the acts/omissions of all individual defendants; (3) seeks an order directing the Company and all individual defendants to take all necessary actions to reform and improve the Company's corporate governance in order to avoid any alleged future harm to the Company.