$59,729 has been recognized as revenue in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020, with $0 revenue in the same period ended January 31, 2019. Revenue generated under enterprise software licenses will be recorded in accordance with the terms of the individual Customer contracts. We expect license fees will be recorded on a monthly basis over the term of the contract, activation fees will be earned upon completion of set up and installation of the enterprise software, and customization and/or professional consulting services will be earned as rendered.
While the Company has entered into an LMMA (re: Note 6) under which we are entitled to fee-based revenue on a profit-sharing basis from a financial services platform known as eXPOTM, the Company has determined that when recording its revenue, the monthly income is not clearly determinable until the fees are actually paid to the Company by AFN. As at October 31, 2018 fees payable by AFN for the period May through October 2018 as reconciled in commission reports received from AFN have not been received by the Company. Subsequently the operations were suspended through August 2019, during which time AFN solidified its’ primary banking relationship and is now able to service and scale as needed with the client’s needs. While AFN re-commenced operating the eXPOTM platform during August 2019, Ga-Du does not yet have any additional revenue allocations. Presently AFN is growing exclusively on a Member referral basis. We expect revenue from this agreement to resume during fiscal 2021. The Company has determined to record its revenue in respect to the LMMA upon receipt until such time as the fee structure and reporting process become more easily determinable. Pursuant to AFN's revenue reports, the amount payable to Ga-Du Corporation is $28,431 (10% of net revenue generated by Colorado Business) at January 31, 2020 and January 31, 2019. The Company will record the revenue once we receive the proceeds.
Cost of Revenue
Costs of revenue consist of the direct expenses incurred to generate revenue. Such costs are recorded as incurred. Our cost of revenue will consist consists primarily of fees associated with the operation of our social media venues and fulfillment of specific customer advertising campaigns related to our downloadable apps. In the case of revenue earned by our wholly owned subsidiary, proceeds allocated to our revenue interest are net of associated costs.
Stock-Based Compensation
The Company records stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718, Share-Based Payments, using the fair value method. All transactions in which goods or services are the consideration received for the issuance of equity instruments are accounted for based on the fair value of the consideration received or the fair value of the equity instrument issued, whichever is more reliably measurable. Equity instruments issued to employees and the cost of the services received as consideration are measured and recognized based on the fair value of the equity instruments issued.
Convertible Debt and Beneficial Conversion Features
The Company evaluates embedded conversion features within convertible debt under ASC 815 "Derivatives and Hedging" to determine whether the embedded conversion feature(s) should be bifurcated from the host instrument and accounted for as a derivative at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in earnings. If the conversion feature does not require derivative treatment under ASC 815, the instrument is evaluated under ASC 470-20 "Debt with Conversion and Other Options" for consideration of any beneficial conversion features.
ECO SCIENCE SOLUTIONS, INC.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 2: SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont'd)
Stock Settled Debt
In certain instances, the Company will issue convertible notes which contain a provision in which the price of the conversion feature is priced at a fixed discount to the trading price of the Company's common shares as traded in the over-the-counter market. In these instances, the Company records a liability, in addition to the principal amount of the convertible note, as stock-settled debt for the fixed value transferred to the convertible note holder from the fixed discount conversion feature. As of January 31, 2020, and January 31, 2019, $248,432 for the value of the stock settled debt for certain convertible notes is included in the Convertible note, net account under balance sheet. (see Note 10).
Basic and Diluted Net Income (Loss) Per Share
The Company computes net income (loss) per share in accordance with ASC 260, Earning per Share. ASC 260 requires presentation of both basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) on the face of the income statement. Basic EPS is computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common shareholders (numerator) by the weighted average number of shares outstanding (denominator) during the period. Diluted EPS gives effect to all dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method and convertible preferred stock using the if-converted method. In computing Diluted EPS, the average stock price for the period is used in determining the number of shares assumed to be purchased from the exercise of stock options or warrants. Diluted EPS excludes all dilutive potential shares if their effect is anti-dilutive.
Recently issued accounting pronouncements
The Company has reviewed other recently issued accounting pronouncements and plans to adopt those that are applicable to it. The Company does not expect the adoption of any other pronouncements to have an impact on its results of operations or financial position.
NOTE 3: PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
Property and equipment, net consists of the following:
Depreciation expense (excluding impairment) amounted to $4,423 and $5,109 for the years ended January 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
NOTE 4: INTANGIBLE ASSETS
On June 21, 2017, the Company acquired a 100% interest in Ga-Du including certain intangible assets such as a Financial Services Platform, Testing Labs, and Inventory Control and Advisory Software Platforms. Intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition of Ga-Du were fully impaired on acquisition.
During fiscal 2019 the Company incurred software development expenses with respect to its Herbo enterprise software totaling $362,282 which amounts were initially capitalized as intangible assets. On January 31, 2019, the Company impaired intangible assets totaling $362,282.
ECO SCIENCE SOLUTIONS, INC.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 5: SPONSORSHIP AGREEMENT
On April 1, 2018, ESSI entered into a Sponsorship Agreement with Fruit of Life Productions, LLC. The terms of the Agreement allowed Eco Science Solutions, Inc. (ESSI) to sponsor Kaya Fest 2018, to be held in San Bernardino, California.
The term of the Agreement began on April 1, 2018, and continued until April 30, 2018, at the closing of the Kaya Fest. Total fees paid of $250,000 were recorded as research,
development, and promotional expenses during fiscal 2019. These fees were paid to Fruit of Life directly by a third party.
NOTE 6: LICENSE AND MASTER MARKETING AGREEMENT
During fiscal 2018 the Company’s subsidiary Ga-Du entered into an Assignment Agreement with G&L Enterprises, wherein G&L Enterprises assigned to Ga-Du Corporation, all of its rights, interest in, and obligations under a License and Master Marketing Agreement (LMMA) it entered into with Alliance Financial Network, Inc. ("AFN").
AFN provides financial and enterprise services to businesses and individuals, including the cannabis industry, on a programmatic or membership basis from which AFN derives fees and income from enrolling companies in their financial program and providing a range of services, with respect to which AFN and Ga-Du derive fees and income on a fee based schedule.
The primary focus of AFN is a mobile application known as eXPO™ electronic eXchange Portal which provides virtual financial and enterprise services to businesses and individuals that are challenged in the traditional banking systems, and/or require more intensive compliance than banks are willing, or able to perform and/or do not have the technical expertise or financial wherewithal in house to develop their own FinTech solutions, including accounting and enterprise management software. One such industry is the cannabis industry where AFN establishes Membership relationships with businesses in this industry, following a full compliance audit on the business. These services utilize the Herbo suite of software to effectively track transactional data for eXPO™ users, providing Ga-Du a share of all Cannabis related revenues received by AFN regardless of the source of revenues through (i) membership fees; (ii) cash depository fees; (iii) merchant processing and credit card fees; (iv) transfer fees; and (v) advertising fees. AFN’s services operate on a national level with sales in both cannabis and non-cannabis-based industries. While revenues allocated to Ga-Du are currently governed on a territory by territory basis, Ga-Du and AFN are actively negotiating an amendment to the agreements to become all inclusive.
In exchange for the revenue split under the LMMA, as amended in March 2018, Ga-Du agreed to pay to AFN $405,000 in three tranches for operational expenses and business development.
Under the terms of the aforementioned agreements with respect to a beta trial for the AFN services focused solely on the State of Colorado during the period May through October 31, 2018, $28,431 is payable to Ga-Du from revenue generated by operations on the eXPOTM platform. Subsequently the operations were suspended through August 2019, during which time AFN solidified its’ primary banking relationship and is now able to service and scale as needed with the client’s needs. While AFN re-commenced operating the eXPOTM platform during August 2019, Ga-Du does not yet have any additional revenue allocations. Presently AFN is growing exclusively on a Member referral basis. We expect revenue from this agreement to resume during fiscal 2021.
NOTE 7: PREPAID EXPENSES
Prepaid expenses consist of the following:
ECO SCIENCE SOLUTIONS, INC.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 8: CONVERTIBLE PROMISSORY NOTE RECEIVABLE
During fiscal 2018, the Company’s subsidiary Ga-Du entered into an Assignment Agreement with G&L Enterprises, wherein G&L Enterprises assigned to Ga-Du Corporation, all of its rights, interest in, and obligations under a LMMA with AFN. (Note 6) As part of this agreement the Company was assigned a loan receivable with the principal amount of $100,000.
The Note matured on July 6, 2018, accrued interest at a rate of 12% per annum was payable to Ga-Du Corporation. The Note can, at Ga-Du's option, be converted upon maturity into 1.12% of the equity of AFN. The Company wrote off the balance of promissory note receivable on Oct 31, 2019.
During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 and 2019, the company recorded interest income of $9,000 and $12,000, respectively. The Company wrote off the balance of interest receivable on Oct 31, 2019. As of October 31, 2019, the interest receivable on this note totaled $0 (January 31, 2019 - $18,833).
NOTE 9: NOTES PAYABLE
Note 1:
During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017, the Company received an accumulated amount of $14,930 from a third party. The notes bear interest at a rate of 1% per annum, and each due three months from issue date. During the fiscal years ended January 31, 2020 and 2019 the Company accrued interest expense of $149 and $150, respectively. As of January 31, 2020, and 2019, the Company has accrued interest payable of $555 and $406, respectively.
Note 2:
During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017, the Company received an amount of $50,000 from a third party. The note bears interest at a rate of 1% per annum and is due three months from issue date. As at January 31, 2018 the note became due and remained unpaid. During the fiscal years ended January 31, 2020 and 2019 the Company accrued interest expense of $500. As of January 31, 2020, and 2019, the Company has accrued interest payable of $1,626 and 1,126, respectively.
Note 3:
During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017, the Company received an amount of $225,000 from a third party. The note bears interest at a rate of 6% per annum and is due one year from issue date.
During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 the Company received accumulated amounts of $1,842,500 from a third party. The notes bear interest at a rate of 6% per annum and each is due one year from issue date.