The energy production and technology industries are subject to many laws and regulations which govern the protection of the environment, quality control standards, health and safety requirements, and the management, transportation and disposal of hazardous substances and other waste. Environmental laws and regulations may require removal or remediation of pollutants and may impose civil and criminal penalties for violations. Some environmental laws and regulations authorize the recovery of natural resource damages by the government, injunctive relief and the imposition of stop, control, remediation, and abandonment orders. Similarly, consumer protection laws impose quality control standards on products marketed to the public and prohibit the distribution and marketing of products not meeting those standards.
The costs arising from compliance with environmental and consumer protection laws and regulations may increase operating costs for both us and our potential customers. Any regulatory changes that impose additional environmental restrictions or quality control requirements on us or on our potential customers could adversely affect us through increased operating costs and potential decreased demand for our services, which could prevent us from becoming profitable.
The development and expansion of our business through acquisitions, joint ventures, and other strategic transactions may create risks that may reduce the benefits we anticipate from these strategic alliances and may prevent us from achieving or sustaining profitability.
We intend to enter into technology acquisition and licensing agreements and strategic alliances such as joint ventures or partnerships in order to develop and commercialize our proposed technologies and services, and to increase our competitiveness. We currently do not have any commitments or agreements regarding acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic alliances. Our management is unable to predict whether or when we will secure any such commitments or agreements, or whether such commitments or agreements will be secured on favorable terms and conditions.
Our ability to continue or expand our operations through acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic alliances depends on many factors, including our ability to identify acquisitions, joint ventures, or partnerships, or access capital markets on acceptable terms. Even if we are able to identify strategic alliance targets, we may be unable to obtain the necessary financing to complete these transactions and could financially overextend ourselves.
Acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing business and difficulties in integrating operations and personnel. Acquisitions or other strategic alliances also pose the risk that we may be exposed to successor liability relating to prior actions involving a predecessor company, or contingent liabilities incurred before a strategic transaction. Due diligence conducted in connection with an acquisition, and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from sellers of acquired companies, may not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, actual liabilities. Liabilities associated with an acquisition or a strategic transaction could adversely affect our business and financial performance and reduce the benefits of the acquisition or strategic transaction. Any failure to integrate new businesses or manage any new alliances successfully could adversely affect our business and financial performance and prevent us from achieving profitability.
We are dependent upon our officers for execution of our business plan. As a result, our future success depends heavily upon the continuing services of the members of our senior management team. If one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all, and our business may be disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Competition for senior management and key personnel is intense, the pool of qualified candidates is very limited, and we may not be able to retain the services of our senior executives or key personnel, or attract and retain high-quality senior executives or key personnel in the future. We do not currently maintain key man insurance on our senior managers. The loss of the services of our senior management team and employees could result in a disruption of operations which could result in reduced revenues.
Outbreaks of epidemic diseases, including COVID-19, could adversely impact our business operations.
Our business could be adversely affected by a widespread second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic which has been predicted by health experts. Many countries have imposed travel bans, quarantines, and other emergency public health measures. This could have an adverse effect on our ability to travel, distribute and install products, as well as force the temporary closure of offices and facilities. In addition, the global marine transportation industry has been negatively affected by travel restrictions and shutdown of businesses. This in turn can reduce demand for our marine scrubbers to these shipping customers if many vessels sit idle or are taken out of service during the outbreak. On June 19, 2020, the Company closed the Norway office as we rethink the sales strategy in the marine division.
The pandemic could also impact our customers and suppliers negatively in operations and financial conditions. Any disruption of our suppliers or customers would likely impact our sales and operating results. Further, a pandemic could result in a worldwide health crisis and economic downturn, which could impact our operating results.
Significant drop in oil price may have a material adverse effect on our business.
In March 2020, Saudi Arabia triggered an oil price war in response to Russia’s refusal to reduce oil production in order to keep prices for oil at moderate level. This economic conflict resulted in a sharp drop of oil price over the spring of 2020, including low sulphur fuel oil. The corresponding reduction in the price of low sulphur fuel oil could negatively affect the demand for our marine scrubbers. Fuels with higher sulphur content has been cheaper than low sulphur fuel historically. Our marine scrubbers allow our customers to use fuels with higher sulphur content. A decrease in the demand for marine scrubbers, which allow the use of heavy fuel oil under IMO 2020, could reduce our sales of marine scrubbers.
We are at risk that the Technologies will not perform to expectations.
As at the date of this annual report, the Technologies have been tested to satisfactory requirements but there is no guarantee that the Technologies will continue to perform satisfactorily in the future which would damage our prospects.
The market for alternative energy products, technologies or services is emerging and rapidly evolving and its future success is uncertain. Insufficient demand for the Technologies would prevent us from achieving or sustaining profitability.
It is possible that we may spend large sums of money to bring the Technologies to market, but demand may not develop or may develop more slowly than we anticipate.
Our future success is currently dependent on our Technologies and:
(a) our ability to quickly react to technological innovations;
(b) the cost-effectiveness of our Technologies;
(c) the performance and reliability of alternative energy products and services that we develop;
(d) our ability to formalize marketing relationships or secure commitments for our Technologies, products and services; and
(e) realization of sufficient funding to support our marketing and business development plans.
We may be unable to develop widespread commercial markets for our Technologies. We may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability.
Competition within the environment sustainability industry may prevent us from becoming profitable.
The alternative energies industry is competitive and fragmented and includes numerous small companies capable of competing effectively in the market we target as well as several large companies that possess substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Larger competitors’ greater resources could allow those competitors to compete more effectively than we can with our Technologies. A number of competitors have developed more mature businesses than us and have successfully built their names in the international alternative energy markets. These various competitors may be able to offer products, sustainability technologies or services more competitively priced and more widely available than our Technologies and may also have greater resources to create or develop new technologies and products than us. Failure to compete in the alternative energy industry may prevent us from becoming profitable, and thus you may lose your entire investment.
We are at risk that we are unable to manufacture our Technologies in accordance with contractual terms.
All contracts which we secure for the sale of our Technologies will require that we supply a functioning emission control system. There is a risk that we are unable to manufacture and supply our Technologies in accordance with contractual terms. Any failure by us to perform our obligations under any such contract may have a detrimental impact on our financial standing and reputation.
Risks Related to our Stockholders and Shares of Common Stock
The continued sale of our equity securities will dilute the ownership percentage of our existing stockholders and may decrease the market price for our common stock.
As of March 31st, 2020, the Company’s cash reserves are approximately $21.4 million. We expect to continue our efforts to market, manufacture and deliver our Technologies to customers. Should the Company need additional resources, we may consider selling additional equity securities which will result in dilution to our existing stockholders. In short, our continued need to sell equity will result in reduced percentage ownership interests for all of our investors, which may decrease the market price for our common stock.
We do not intend to pay dividends and there will thus be fewer ways in which you are able to make a gain on your investment.
We have never paid dividends and do not intend to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. To the extent that we may require additional funding currently not provided for in our financing plan, our funding sources may prohibit the declaration of dividends. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, any gain on your investment will need to result from an appreciation in the price of our common stock. There will therefore be fewer ways in which you are able to make a gain on your investment. In the future when we do intend to pay dividends, we will formalize a dividend policy.
Because the SEC imposes additional sales practice requirements on brokers who deal in shares of penny stocks, some brokers may be unwilling to trade our securities. This means that you may have difficulty reselling your shares, which may cause the value of your investment to decline.
Our shares are classified as penny stocks and are covered by Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) which imposes additional sales practice requirements on brokers-dealers who sell our securities in this offering or in the aftermarket. For sales of our securities, broker-dealers must make a special suitability determination and receive a written agreement prior from you to making a sale on your behalf. Because of the imposition of the foregoing additional sales practices, it is possible that broker-dealers will not want to make a market in our common stock. This could prevent you from reselling your shares and may cause the value of your investment to decline.
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) sales practice requirements may limit your ability to buy and sell our common stock, which could depress the price of our shares.