On December 22, 2017, the US federal tax legislation commonly known as the Tax Cut and Jobs Act (TCJA) was signed into law. The TCJA made major changes to the Internal Revenue Code, including reducing the US federal income corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. Under the TCJA, for net operating losses (“NOLs”) arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, the TCJA limits a US corporate taxpayer’s ability to utilize NOL carryforwards to 80% of the taxpayer’s taxable income (as modified by the CARES Act, as described below). In addition, NOLs arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 can be carried forward indefinitely, with no carryback. NOLs generated in tax years beginning before January 1, 2018 are not be subject to the taxable income limitation and generally has a 20 year carryforward. On March 27, 2020 the President signed into law the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act). The CARES Act introduced various tax changes, including granting a five-year carry back period for NOLs arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2021, temporary suspension of the 80% taxable income limitation on the use of NOLs arising in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 but before January 1, 2021.
The Company estimates that is has accumulated net operating losses of approximately $8.7 million, which were incurred mainly in the U.S., some of which begin to expire in 2036. Historical losses in the U.S., are subject to limitations on use due to deemed changes in control for tax purposes. This impacts the timing and opportunity to use certain losses.
20.Subsequent Event
On July 1, 2020, 3,300,000 share purchase warrants expired unexercised.
Item 9A.
section_9: 
section_9A: Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our president (our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer), as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our president (our principal executive officer) and chief financial officer (principal financial officer and principal accounting officer), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2020. Based on the evaluation of these disclosure controls and procedures, and in light of the material weaknesses found in our internal controls over financial reporting, our president (our principal executive officer) and chief financial officer (principal financial officer and principal accounting officer) concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Our company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our president (our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer), our company conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our company’s internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2020 using the criteria established in “Internal Control - Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”).
We conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based upon the framework in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. This evaluation included review of the documentation of controls, evaluation of the design effectiveness of controls, testing of the operating effectiveness of controls and a conclusion on this evaluation. On December 20, 2019 PGT acquired 100% of the equity of Shanghai Engin Digital Technology Co. Ltd. Please read Item 8 - Financial Statements: Note 7 - Acquisition of Engin. PGT management have excluded from its evaluation of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, as of March 31, 2020, Engin business’s internal control over financial reporting associated with net assets of $7,896,897 and total revenues of $450,418 included in PGT’s consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 2020
A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2020, our company determined that there were control deficiencies that constituted material weaknesses, as described below.
● We do not have an Audit Committee - While not being legally obligated to have an audit committee, it is the management’s view that such a committee, including a financial expert member, is an utmost important entity level control over our company’s financial statements. Currently the board of directors acts in the capacity of the audit committee, and does not include a member that is considered to be independent of management to provide the necessary oversight over management’s activities.
● We did not have adequate accounting personnel throughout the year - The Company has hired a number of qualified financial reporting accountants in Q4 2020. However, it takes time to implement controls over segregation of duties and financial and accounting processes.
As a result of the material weaknesses described above, management has concluded that our company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2020 based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by COSO.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There has been no significant change in our internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with our evaluation we conducted of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2020, that occurred during our fourth fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
This annual report does not include an attestation report of our company’s registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management’s report was not subject to attestation by our company’s registered public accounting firm pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit our company to provide only management’s report in this annual report.
Continuing Remediation Efforts to address deficiencies in Company’s Internal Control over Financial Reporting
When the Company has sufficient personnel available, then our board of directors, in particular and in connection with the aforementioned deficiencies, will establish the following remediation measures:
●We will attempt to increase the number of members on our board of directors and nominate an audit committee including a financial expert in the next fiscal year, 2020-2021.
●We will incorporate more controls including segregation of duties and undertake regular and thorough reviews of all accounting entries are in the process of determining how best to implement global controls in relation to these individuals to improve better segregation of duties.
Item 9B.
section_9B: Item 9B. Other Information
On August 31, 2013, Neil Carmichael consented to and was appointed as president, treasurer and secretary of our company. On August 23, 2019, Neil Carmichael resigned, and the Company entered into a Non-Executive Directorship Agreement with Neil Carmichael.
Effective October 1, 2013, Dr. Andrew Jolly was appointed as a director of our company. Andrew Jolly resigned on February 1, 2020 as Director and became a Senior Technical Adviser to our Company.
Effective July 20, 2016, Alexander Shead was appointed as a director of our company.
Effective May 8, 2017, Scott Poulter was appointed as an executive director of our company. On August 23, 2019, Scott Poulter was appointed Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Secretary and Treasurer of our Company.
Effective January 24, 2019, Iain Lees was appointed an executive director of our company. On July 2, 2019, Iain Lees resigned from the Company.
On January 20, 2020, Richard Fraser-Smith was appointed the Company’s Chief Financial Officer.
On February 1, 2020, Dr. Andrew Jolly resigned as director of the Company
On February 1, 2020, Eric Prouty became an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company.
PART III
Item 10.
section_10: Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
The following individuals serve as the directors and executive officers of our company as of the date of this annual report. All directors of our company hold office until the next annual meeting of our shareholders or until their successors have been elected and qualified. The executive officers of our company are appointed by our board of directors and hold office until their death, resignation or removal from office.
Business Experience
The following is a brief account of the education and business experience during at least the past five years of our directors and executive officer, indicating their principal occupation during that period, and the name and principal business of the organization in which such occupation and employment were carried out.
Scott Poulter - Chairman, CEO, President, Secretary and Treasurer
Scott Poulter was appointed as Executive Director of Pacific Green Technologies Inc. on May 8, 2017. On August 23, 2019, Mr Poulter was appointed Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Secretary and Treasurer of our Company. Mr Poulter was a former professional windsurfer in the United Kingdom, and subsequently became a sports marketing entrepreneur with various sport marketing businesses worldwide which controlled various commercial or licensing rights in Formula One auto racing from 1996 to 2003.
In 2009, he was asked to assist an emission control technology company, Enviroresolutions, in commercializing its proprietary technology and he became increasingly interested in technologies that could help improve the environment. In that vein, Mr. Poulter founded Pacific Green Group Limited, which is now a significant investor in our company, and has since endeavoured to use his entrepreneurial skills and international business experience to drive forward the emission control technologies of Pacific Green Technologies, Inc. He has been integral in delivering our Company’s business relationships in China and Europe.
Neil Carmichael - Non-Executive Director