Dr. Neil Carmichael was appointed as a director of our company on December 18, 2012 and as our president, treasurer and secretary on August 31, 2013. On August 23, 2019, Dr. Carmichael resigned, and the Company entered into a Non-Executive Directorship Agreement with Neil Carmichael. Dr. Carmichael holds a Mathematics BSc from University of Edinburgh and a Mathematics PhD from University of Warwick. Dr. Carmichael has over 25 years’ energy sector management experience including international business development, strategy formulation and implementation and procurement accountabilities. From 1980-85 Dr. Carmichael worked in scientific and engineering consultancy, initially with Scicon (part of BP group) on non-linear optimization, then with Intercomp on mathematics for petroleum engineering and reservoir simulators. In 1985 he joined Shell in its reservoir engineering research unit. This was followed by positions in petroleum engineering, field development; followed by management roles in business development, personnel, information technology and procurement. This required working in a range of countries, from Peru to Bangladesh. In 2006 to 2010 he was chief executive officer of Shell Business Development Central Asia, based in Astana, Kazakhstan and responsible for Shell’s new business activities in Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Azerbaijan. Dr. Carmichael was also the Shell representative in Turkmenistan and Azerbaijan. Since 2010 he has been working on two upstream, exploration focused, startups, one in Ukraine and the other in Pakistan. Dr. Carmichael has most recently held the position of general manager and country representative in Central Asia with Shell Exploration and Production. Dr. Carmichael has a wide range of technical, country and management experiences; mostly focused on oil and gas, much of it applicable in other domains.
Alexander Shead - Director
Alexander Shead is a British, Australian and Swiss national. In 1993, Mr. Shead co-founded Stuart Alexander in the UK, an insurance advisory business which was sold to AXA UK. In 2004, he moved to Australia where he was a cornerstone investor and Director of Milne Alexander, a boutique insurance broking and advisory firm until its sale in 2007. Between 2007 and 2014, Mr. Shead was the Executive Chairman of the Mecon Winsure Insurance Group until its sale to Steadfast Group Limited in 2014.
In 2008, Mr. Shead founded Food Ladder International, an international NGO established to create financially sustainable social enterprises that empower disadvantaged individuals through employment. He remains a Director of Food Ladder International. In 2009, Mr. Shead became a director of First Unity Financial Group, a wealth management business that was sold in 2011. In 2012, he became and still remains as the Non-Executive Chairman of Lockton Companies Australia, the Australian arm of Lockton, the world’s largest privately owned, independent insurance brokerage firm.
Mr. Shead was educated at Harrow School in England and the Sorbonne University in Paris.
Eric Prouty - Non-Executive Director
On February 1, 2020, Eric Prouty became an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company. Mr. Prouty is s an experienced Equity Research Analyst and Investor Relations consultant. His research work has primarily focused on environmental sustainability.
In November 2013, Mr Prouty was a founding partner of AdvisIRy, an investor relations firm based in New York. He also sits on the board of Hudson Technologies Inc. (NASDAQ: HDSN), a NASDAQ listed company, where he is a member of the Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Executive committees.
Prior to the appointments above, Mr Prouty was a Senior Research Analyst at Canaccord Genuity (2006-2011), Director of Equity Research at Adams Harkness (2001-2007), Senior Equity Research Analyst at Robertson Stephens (2000-2001), an Equity Research Analyst at First Albany (1996-2000) and an Equity Research Associate at State Street (1992-1996).
Mr. Prouty graduated with a B.A. in Economics from Dickinson College.
Richard Fraser-Smith-Chief Financial Officer
Richard Fraser-Smith, Chartered Accountant, is a finance professional. He was previously Chief Financial Officer of Global Marine Systems Limited (“Global Marine”), a provider of engineering solutions and sub-sea fibre optic and power cable installation, maintenance and related services to the worldwide telecoms, offshore wind and oil and gas markets.
Mr. Fraser-Smith qualified as a Chartered Accountant with PricewaterhouseCoopers in 1991, where he worked on audits in a wide range of businesses. He later worked for Conoco Inc., ING Barings, PepsiCo, Halcrow Group Limited, CH2M Hill before joining Global Marine in 2015.
Within the finance function, Mr. Fraser-Smith has used his experience to transform reporting timeframes for management accounts as well as treasury and cash management procedures, along with M&A support. In addition to his financial expertise, he has been integrally involved in business planning and strategy, has developed full board reporting/KPI (key performance indicator) packages in support of this, and reviewed business processes, supply chains and logistics, reducing lead times, freeing up working capital and significantly reducing costs.
Mr. Fraser-Smith graduated in Chemical Engineering from Manchester University (UMIST) and is a Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Other Directorships
Other than as disclosed above, our directors and officer do not hold any other directorships in any company with a class of securities registered pursuant to section 12 of the Exchange Act or subject to the requirements of section 15(d) of such Act or any company registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Board of Directors and Director Nominees
Since our board of directors does not include a majority of independent directors, the decisions of the board regarding director nominees are made by persons who have an interest in the outcome of the determination. The Board will consider candidates for directors proposed by security holders, although no formal procedures for submitting candidates have been adopted. Unless otherwise determined, at any time not less than 90 days prior to the next annual board meeting at which the slate of director nominees is adopted, the board will accept written submissions from proposed nominees that include the name, address and telephone number of the proposed nominee; a brief statement of the nominee’s qualifications to serve as a director; and a statement as to why the security holder submitting the proposed nominee believes that the nomination would be in the best interests of our security holders. If the proposed nominee is not the same person as the security holder submitting the name of the nominee, a letter from the nominee agreeing to the submission of his or her name for consideration should be provided at the time of submission. The letter should be accompanied by a résumé supporting the nominee’s qualifications to serve on the board, as well as a list of references.
The board identifies director nominees through a combination of referrals from different people, including management, existing board members and security holders. Once a candidate has been identified, the board reviews the individual’s experience and background and may discuss the proposed nominee with the source of the recommendation. If the board believes it to be appropriate, board members may meet with the proposed nominee before making a final determination whether to include the proposed nominee as a member of the slate of director nominees submitted to security holders for election to the board.
Some of the factors which the board considers when evaluating proposed nominees include their knowledge of and experience in business matters, finance, capital markets and mergers and acquisitions. The board may request additional information from each candidate prior to reaching a determination. The board is under no obligation to formally respond to all recommendations, although as a matter of practice, it will endeavor to do so.
Conflicts of Interest
Our directors are not obligated to commit their full time and attention to our business and, accordingly, they may encounter a conflict of interest in allocating time between our operations and those of other businesses. In the course of their other business activities, they may become aware of investment and business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as other entities to which they owe a fiduciary duty. As a result, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. They may also in the future become affiliated with entities, engaged in business activities similar to those we intend to conduct. In general, officers and directors of a corporation are required to present business opportunities to a corporation if:
● the corporation could financially undertake the opportunity;
● the opportunity is within the corporation’s line of business; and
● it would be unfair to the corporation and its stockholders not to bring the opportunity to the attention of the corporation.
We adopted a code of ethics that obligates our directors, officers, and employees to disclose potential conflicts of interest and prohibits those persons from engaging in such transactions without our consent.
Significant Employees
Other than as previously described, we do not expect any other individuals to make a significant contribution to our business.
Legal Proceedings
Except as noted below, to the best of our knowledge, none of our directors or executive officers has, during the past ten years:
1. been convicted in a criminal proceeding or been subject to a pending criminal proceeding (excluding traffic violations and other minor offences);
2. had any bankruptcy petition filed by or against the business or property of the person, or of any partnership, corporation or business association of which he was a general partner or executive officer, either at the time of the bankruptcy filing or within two years prior to that time;
3. been subject to any order, judgment, or decree, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, of any court of competent jurisdiction or federal or state authority, permanently or temporarily enjoining, barring, suspending or otherwise limiting, his involvement in any type of business, securities, futures, commodities, investment, banking, savings and loan, or insurance activities, or to be associated with persons engaged in any such activity;
4. been found by a court of competent jurisdiction in a civil action or by the SEC or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to have violated a federal or state securities or commodities law, and the judgment has not been reversed, suspended, or vacated;
5. been the subject of, or a party to, any federal or state judicial or administrative order, judgment, decree, or finding, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated (not including any settlement of a civil proceeding among private litigants), relating to an alleged violation of any federal or state securities or commodities law or regulation, any law or regulation respecting financial institutions or insurance companies including, but not limited to, a temporary or permanent injunction, order of disgorgement or restitution, civil money penalty or temporary or permanent cease-and-desist order, or removal or prohibition order, or any law or regulation prohibiting mail or wire fraud or fraud in connection with any business entity; or
6. been the subject of, or a party to, any sanction or order, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, of any self-regulatory organization (as defined in Section 3(a)(26) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C 78c(a)(26))), any registered entity (as defined in Section 1(a)(29) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1(a)(29))), or any equivalent exchange, association, entity or organization that has disciplinary authority over its members or persons associated with a member.
Note: on or about May 1, 2019 an affiliated shareholder of the Company holding more than ten percent of our issued and outstanding securities, informed the Company that it has profited from the purchase and sale of our stock within a period of less than six months, in violation of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Act”). Pursuant to a Settlement Agreement dated July 2, 2019, in exchange for the forbearance of legal action by the Company pursuant to Section 16(b), the shareholder has disgorged to our Company the full amount of the profit realized.
Audit Committee
We do not currently have an audit committee or a committee performing similar functions. Our board of directors as a whole participates in the review of financial statements and disclosure.
Family Relationships
There are no family relationships among our officers, directors, or persons nominated for such positions.