It is anticipated that the investigation of specific business opportunities and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial cost for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to participate in a specific business opportunity, the costs theretofore incurred in the related investigation might not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached for the participation in a specific business opportunity, the failure to consummate that transaction may result in the loss to us of the related costs incurred.
Competition
We face competition from various companies involved in the environmental technology industries and specifically companies involved in filtering of pollutants.
Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, better brand recognition and greater financial resources than we do. To successfully compete in our industry, we will need to:
● establish our product’s competitive advantage with customers;
● develop a comprehensive marketing system; and
● increase our financial resources.
However, there can be no assurance that even if we do these things, we will be able to compete effectively with the other companies in our industry.
As we grow into our chosen strategic field of environmental technologies, we face the same problems as other new companies starting up in an industry, such as lack of available funds. Our competitors may be substantially larger and better funded than us, and have significantly longer histories of research, operation and development than us. In addition, they may be able to provide more competitive products than we can and generally be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in legislation and regulations relating to the industry. Additionally, our competitors may devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products or services than we do. Increased competition could also result in loss of key personnel, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could harm our business.
Intellectual Property
We do not own, either legally or beneficially, any registered patent or trademark, except for the following proprietary emission abatement systems and associated marks, currently known as:
●ENVI-Clean™;
●ENVI-Pure™, for removing acid gases, particulate matter, dioxins, VOCs and other regulated hazardous air pollutants from the flue gases produced by the combustion of coal, biomass, municipal solid waste, diesel and other fuels; and
●ENVI-Marine™, a scrubber that can be applied to diesel exhaust emissions that require sulphur and particulate matter abatement, (ENVI-Clean™, ENVI-Pure™ and ENVI-Marine™ together, the “Technologies”).
The ENVI-Clean™ system has protected intellectual property rights throughout most of the world. Its technology is protected by Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) patent application no. PCT/CA210/000988 filed June 25, 2010 with a priority filing date of June 25, 2009. The International Preliminary Report on Patentability for this PCT application considered all patent claims of the application to be patentable. EnviroTechnologies has pending national or regional phase patent applications claiming priority from PCT/CA2010/000988 covering 127 countries. Once patents issue, patent rights in this technology will generally endure until June 25, 2030.
Further, we own the rights to the US provisional patent application no. US 61/614696 for the integrated wet scrubbing system. Additionally, we own the rights to US provisional patent application no. US 61/645874 for the flooded wet scrubbing head patent.
We claim copyright in all our published corporate, promotional and sales materials.
Government Regulations
Some aspects of our intended operations will be subject to a variety of federal, provincial, state and local laws, rules and regulations in North America and worldwide relating to, among other things, worker safety and the use, storage, discharge and disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. For example, we are subject to the Resource Conservation Recovery Act (“RCRA”), the principal federal legislation regulating hazardous waste generation, management, and disposal.
Under some of the laws regulating the use, storage, discharge and disposal of environmentally sensitive materials, an owner or lessee of real estate may be liable for the costs of removing or remediating certain hazardous or toxic substances located on or in, or emanating from, such property, as well as related costs of investigation and property damage. Laws of this nature often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or lessee knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. These laws and regulations may require the removal or remediation of pollutants and may impose civil and criminal penalties for violations. Some of the laws and regulations authorize the recovery of natural resource damages by the government, injunctive relief and the imposition of stop, control, remediation, and abandonment orders. The costs arising from compliance with environmental and natural resource laws and regulations may increase operating costs for both us and our potential customers. We are also subject to safety policies of jurisdictional-specific Workers Compensation Boards and similar agencies regulating the health and safety of workers.
We are not aware of any material violations of environmental permits, licenses or approvals issued with respect to our operations. We expect to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations relating to our intended business. At this time, we do not anticipate any material capital expenditures to comply with environmental or various regulations and requirements.
While our intended projects or business activities have been designed to produce environmentally friendly green energy or other alternative products for which no specific regulatory barriers exist, any regulatory changes that impose additional restrictions or requirements on us or on our potential customers could adversely affect us by increasing our operating costs and decreasing potential demand for our technologies, products or services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
Subsidiaries
Our company’s wholly owned subsidiaries are (1) Pacific Green Marine Technologies Group Inc., a Delaware corporation, (2) Pacific Green Marine Technologies Inc., a Delaware corporation (3) Pacific Green Marine Technologies Inc., a Canadian corporation, (4) Pacific Green Marine Technologies Limited, a United Kingdom company, (5) Pacific Green Technologies Asia Limited, a Hong Kong company, (6) Pacific Green Technologies China Limited, a Hong Kong company, (7) Pacific Green Marine Technologies Trading Limited, a United Kingdom company, (8) Pacific Green Marine Technologies (Norway) AS, (9) Pacific Green Marine Technologies (USA) Inc., a Delaware Corporation (inactive), (10) Pacific Green Environmental Technologies Ltd. (11) Shanghai Engin Digital Technology Co. Ltd., a Chinese company, and (12) Guangdong Northeast Power Engineering Design Co Ltd., a Chinese company, unless otherwise indicated.
REPORTS TO SECURITY HOLDERS
We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission and our filings are available to the public over the internet at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website at http://www.sec.gov. The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E. Washington D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1-800-732-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and formation statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at http://www.sec.gov.
Employees
As of March 31, 2020, the Company’s subsidiaries employed people in Canada, United Kingdom, Hong Kong, China, and Norway. The Company also relies heavily upon the use of contractors and consultants. The Company employed approximately 110 staff as of March 31, 2020, but due to a combination of COVID-19 and the drop in the oil price, a number of restructuring activities have taken place since then and further may be considered necessary. On June 19, 2020, the sales office in Oslo, Norway was closed as the Company rethinks its sales strategy.
Item 1A.
section_1A: Item 1A. Risk Factors
Risks Related to our Business
We have a limited operating history with significant losses.
We have yet to establish any history of profitable operations. We incurred a cumulative deficit of $75,321,335 for the period from April 5, 2011 (inception) to March 31, 2020. We generated our first revenues during the year ended March 31, 2018 of $1,995,000. We generated our first net income during the year ended March 31, 2020 of $10,381,420. We expect that future revenues and profitability will be sufficient to sustain our operations for the foreseeable future. Our profitability will depend on our ability to successfully market and sell the Technologies and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so.
We may not be able to secure additional financing to meet our future capital needs due to changes in general economic conditions.
We anticipate needing significant capital to develop our sales force and effectively market the Technologies. We may use capital more rapidly than currently anticipated and incur higher operating expenses than currently expected, and we may be required to depend on external financing to satisfy our operating and capital needs. We may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct our operations or expand our business. Any sustained weakness in the general economic conditions and/or financial markets in the United States or globally could adversely affect our ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all. From time to time we have relied, and may also rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity to satisfy working capital requirements and for general corporate purposes. We may be unable to secure debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all, at the time when we need such funding.
Beginning in 2020, the global COVID-19 pandemic significantly increased the volatility of financial markets worldwide. Significant volatility or disruptions of the capital markets could eliminate our access to financing, and/or significantly increase its cost. Such volatility or disruptions in the capital markets may cause lenders to be unwilling to provide us with financing to fund our ongoing operations and growth.
If we do raise funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing stockholders would be reduced, and the securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock or may be issued at a discount to the market price of our common stock which would result in dilution to our existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to debt covenants, which could place limitations on our operations including our ability to declare and pay dividends. Our inability to raise additional funds on a timely basis would make it difficult for us to achieve our business objectives and would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, delays and difficulties frequently encountered in establishing a new business in an emerging and evolving industry, including the following factors:
● our business model and strategy are still evolving and are continually being reviewed and revised;
● we may not be able to raise the capital required to develop our initial client base and reputation; and
● we may not be able to successfully develop our planned products and services.
We cannot be sure that we will be successful in meeting these challenges and addressing these risks and uncertainties. If we are unable to do so, our business will not be successful and the value of your investment in us will decline.
Our business is subject to environmental and consumer protection legislation and any changes in such legislation could prevent us from becoming profitable.