section_1: Item 1. Business
This annual report contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may”, “should”, “expects”, “plans”, “anticipates”, “believes”, “estimates”, “predicts”, “potential” or “continue” or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, including the risks in the section entitled “Risk Factors”, that may cause our or our industry’s actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, we do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results.
Our financial statements are stated in United States dollars (US$) and are prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
In this annual report, unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts are expressed in United States dollars and all references to “common shares” refer to the common shares in our capital stock.
As used in this annual report and unless otherwise indicated, the terms “we”, “us”, “our”, the “Company”, and “our company” mean Pacific Green Technologies Inc., a Delaware corporation, and our wholly owned subsidiaries, (1) Pacific Green Marine Technologies Inc., a Delaware corporation, (2) Pacific Green Marine Technologies Group Inc., a Delaware corporation, (3) Pacific Green Marine Technologies Inc., a Canadian corporation, (4) Pacific Green Marine Technologies Limited, a United Kingdom company, (5) Pacific Green Technologies Asia Limited, a Hong Kong company, (6) Pacific Green Technologies China Limited, a Hong Kong company, (7) Pacific Green Marine Technologies Trading Limited, a United Kingdom company, (8) Pacific Green Marine Technologies (Norway) AS, (9) Pacific Green Marine Technologies (USA) Inc., a Delaware Corporation (inactive), (10) Pacific Green Environmental Technologies Ltd. (11) Shanghai Engin Digital Technology Co. Ltd., a Chinese company, and (12) Guangdong Northeast Power Engineering Design Co Ltd., a Chinese company, unless otherwise indicated.
Strategy
The Company is the proprietary owner of emission control technologies with three distinct applications:
●ENVI-MarineTM, for the marine industry;
●ENVI-PureTM, for the waste to energy and biomass industries; and
●ENVI-CleanTM, designed for coal fired power electricity generation and industrial plants involved in steel generation.
The first of the Company’s technologies to gain significant traction has been ENVI-MarineTM. During the year ended March 31, 2019, the Company secured an order book for its ENVI-MarineTM technology of approximately $180,000,000. During the year ended March 31, 2020, the Company has added approximately $67,000,000 additional sale agreements.
The Company has been proactively seeking the acquisition and development of other technologies designed to improve the environment. On December 20, 2019, the Company closed the acquisition of Shanghai Engin Digital Technology Co. Ltd. (Engin) a solar design, development and engineering company and its subsidiary. Engin is a design and engineering business focused primarily on Concentrated Solar Power (“CSP”), desalination and waste to energy technologies. Engin has a number of reference plants in China. The purpose of the acquisition is to build a portfolio of technologies designed to improve the environment.
ENVI-MarineTM
Our marine division has been driving the Company’s rapid growth, with recruiting at all levels and departments to deliver its significant order book to clients and continues to work closely and strengthen ties with its partner PowerChina SPEM.
The Company has been actively marketing its ENVI-Marine™ units to ship brokers and ship owners. During the course of the last 12 months, the Company has recruited a new sales and marketing team based in Oslo, Norway. The new team has initiated a standardized and analytical process to target new customers in the marine sector.
In terms of orders and contracts during the year:
●on July 5, 2019, the Company announced the exercise of an option granted to two customers for an additional 25 ENVI marine units on designated vessels for delivery in 2020;
●on July 11, 2019, Scorpio Tankers Inc. ordered a further 14 ENVI-Marine™ systems for vessels it owns or manages for delivery in 2020, at a combined cost of $20.3 million; and
●on July 11, 2019, Scorpio Bulkers Inc. ordered a further 9 ENVI-Marine™ systems for vessels it owns or manages for delivery in 2020, at a combined cost of $13.0 million.
ENVI-PureTM
Increasing legislation relating to landfill of municipal solid waste has led to the emergence of increasing numbers of waste to energy plants (“WtE”). A WtE plant obviates the need for landfill, burning municipal waste for conversion to electricity. A WtE plant is typically 45-100MW. The ENVI-Pure™ system is particularly suited to WtE as it cleans multiple pollutants in a single system. The Company has successfully tested its ENVI-Pure™ technology at a WtE plant in Edmonton, England, United Kingdom, and is in discussions regarding the installation of its technologies at WtE facilities in China.
ENVI-CleanTM
EnviroTechnologies Inc. has previously conducted successful sulphur dioxide demonstration tests at the American Bituminous Coal Partners power plant in Grant Town, West Virginia.
The testing achieved a three-test average of 99.3% removal efficiency. The implementation of US Clean Air regulations in July 2010 has created additional demand for sulphur dioxide removal in all industries emitting sulphur pollution. Furthermore, China consumes approximately one half of the world’s coal, but introduced measures designed to reduce energy and carbon intensity in its 12th Five Year Plan. Applications include regional power facilities and heating for commercial buildings and greenhouses. Typical applications range in size from 1 to 20 megawatts (MW) with power generation occupying the larger end of the range.
In 2017, Following the signing of a joint venture agreement with PowerChina SPEM, an ENVI-Clean™ was sold to a steelworks company in Yancheng to remove SO2 from its 93MW gas combustion powerplant.
The ENVI-Clean™ system removes most of the sulphur dioxide, particulate matter, greenhouse gases and other hazardous air pollutants from the flue gases produced by the combustion of coal, biomass, municipal solid waste, diesel and other fuels.
Significant transactions
On January 24, 2019, the Company appointed Iain Lees as Chief Operating Officer of the Company.
On May 24, 2019, the Company appointed Richard Oliver as Chief Financial Officer.
On July 2, 2019, the Company announced the resignation of Iain Lees as the Company’s Chief Operating Officer and a Director.
On July 2, 2019, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with an affiliated shareholder for the disgorgement of profits realized on stock transactions involving a purchase and sale within a nine month period, in violation of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company received approximately $135,454 as a result of the profit disgorgement.
On August 23, 2019, Neil Carmichael resigned as Chief Executive Officer, President, Secretary, and Treasurer of Pacific Green Technologies Inc. Dr. Carmichael’s resignation did not result from any disagreement with the Company regarding our policies, practices, or otherwise. He will continue to serve as a non-executive director on the Company’s board of directors.
On August 23, 2019, Scott Poulter was appointed Chief Executive Officer, President, Secretary and Treasurer of our Company.
On December 19, 2019, the Company accepted the resignation of Richard Oliver, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer.
On December 20, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Engin, a development, design and engineering company focused primarily on Concentrated Solar Power (“CSP”), Salt Water Desalination and Waste to Energy technologies. Consideration for the acquisition of 100% of Engin was determined to be a maximum of $11,154,011 (¥78,000,000) and 125,000 shares of common stock. Engin has developed, designed, and engineered three utility scale CSP operating reference plants in China and has a Desalination reference plant in Indonesia:
 
● Dunhuang 100MW Molten Salt Tower CSP Plant;
● CGN Delingha 50MW Parabolic Trough CSP Plant; and
● Dunhuang 10MW Molten Salt Tower CSP Plant.
 
The Company is excited to expand on its portfolio of environmental technologies for future growth and regards CSP as a market for substantial growth. In 2008 CSP accounted for just 0.5GW of world electricity generation rising to 5.5GW in 2018. With the acquisition of Engin and its subsidiary, the Company and vendor have also agreed to form an International Strategic Alliance Agreement between us, the vendor and PowerChina for the development of CSP plants whereby we and Engin provide the intellectual property (the technical know-how, design and engineering), Shouhang provides manufacturing of the solar field and molten salt tank services and PowerChina provides the EPC role both in China and international markets.
On January 20, 2020, Richard Fraser-Smith was appointed the Company’s new Chief Financial Officer.
On February 1, 2020, Dr. Andrew Jolly resigned as Director of the Company. Dr. Jolly’s resignation did not result from any disagreement with the Company regarding its policies, practices or otherwise. Dr. Jolly did not receive any compensation for loss of office. Dr. Jolly will become a Senior Technical Adviser to our Company.
On February 1, 2020, Eric Prouty became an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Form of any subsequent acquisitions
The manner in which we participate in an opportunity will depend upon the nature of the opportunity, our respective needs and desires and those of the promoters of the opportunity, and our relative negotiating strength compared to that of such promoters.
It is likely that we will acquire further participations in business opportunities through the issuance of our common stock, or other of our securities. Although the terms of any such transaction cannot be predicted, it should be noted that in certain circumstances the criteria for determining whether or not an acquisition is a so-called “tax free” reorganization under Section 368(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, depends upon whether the owners of the acquired business own 80% or more of the voting stock of the surviving entity. If a transaction were structured to take advantage of these provisions rather than other “tax free” provisions provided under the Code, all prior stockholders would in such circumstances retain 20% or less of the total issued and outstanding shares of the surviving entity. Under other circumstances, depending upon the relative negotiating strength of the parties, prior stockholders may retain substantially less than 20% of the total issued and outstanding shares of the surviving entity. This could result in substantial additional dilution to the equity of those who were our stockholders prior to such reorganization.
Our stockholders will likely not have control of a majority of our voting securities following a reorganization transaction. As part of such a transaction, our directors may resign and one or more new directors may be appointed without any vote by stockholders.
In the case of an acquisition, the transaction may be accomplished upon the sole determination of management without any vote or approval by our stockholders. In the case of a statutory merger or consolidation directly involving our company, it will likely be necessary to call a stockholders’ meeting and obtain the approval of the holders of a majority of our outstanding securities. The necessity to obtain such stockholder approval may result in delay and additional expense in the consummation of any proposed transaction and will also give rise to certain appraisal rights to dissenting stockholders. Most likely, management will seek to structure any such transaction so as not to require stockholder approval.