Property and equipment is recorded at cost. Depreciation is recorded at the following annual rates, net of any residual value determined.
(d)Intangible Assets
Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortization and are comprised of patents, customer relationships, plant designs, backlog, and software licensing, Intangible assets are reviewed annually for impairment. The patents, which were acquired in 2013, are being amortized straight-line over the estimated useful life of 17 years. During the year ended March 31, 2020, the Company acquired customer relationships, plant designs, backlog, and software licensing, which are amortized straight-line over the estimated useful life of 6, 6, 2, and 10 years.
(e)Impairment of Long-lived Assets
The Company reviews long-lived assets such as property and equipment and intangible assets with finite useful lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If the total of the expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset, a loss is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the asset.
(f)Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements
ASC 820, “Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures” requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. ASC 820 establishes a fair value hierarchy based on the level of independent, objective evidence surrounding the inputs used to measure fair value. A financial instrument’s categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. ASC 820 prioritizes the inputs into three levels that may be used to measure fair value:
Level
Level 1 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level
Level 2 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets); or model-derived valuations in which significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data.
Level
Level 3 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
Our company’s financial instruments consist principally of cash, accounts receivable, lease receivable, amounts due from and to related parties, accounts payable and accrued liabilities, operating lease liability, and convertible debenture. The recorded values of all financial instruments approximate their current fair values because of their nature and respective maturity dates or durations.
The following table represents assets and liabilities that are measured and recognized at fair value as of March 31, 2020, on a recurring basis:
During the year ended March 31, 2020, the Company recognized a gain on the change in fair value of derivative liability of $257,102 (2019 - loss $356,081).
2.Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
(g)Revenue Recognition
The Company derives revenue from the sale of emission control equipment and related services as well as providing design and engineering services for Concentrated Solar Power, desalination, and waste to energy technologies.
Revenue is recognized when control of products or services is transferred to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those promised products or services.
The Company determines revenue recognition through the following five steps:
●Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer
●Identification of the performance obligations in the contract
●Determination of the transaction price
●Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract
●Recognition of revenue when, or as, performance obligations are satisfied
The Company accounts for a contract when it has approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable.
As our contracts with customers include multiple performance obligations, judgment is required to determine whether performance obligations specified in these contracts are distinct and should be accounted for as separate revenue transactions for recognition purposes. For such arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. Standalone selling prices are generally determined based on the prices charged to customers or using expected cost-plus margin.
Contracts signed with one customer have significant financing component. The Company provides design, production, and installation services of scrubber units to this customer. 20% of the contract price is payable at least 6 calendar months prior to the dry dock date. The remaining 80% is payable in 24 equal monthly instalments starting at the end of the calendar month following the installation date on a vessel by vessel basis. As 80% of the contract price is payable after the last performance obligation towards the scrubber, significant financing component is separated from revenue and interest income at 5.4% is recorded when payments are received from the customer.
(h)Contract Liabilities and Contract Assets
Contractual arrangements with customers for the sale of a scrubber unit generally provide for deposits and instalments through the procurement and design phases of equipment manufacturing. Amounts received from customers, which are not yet recorded as revenues under the Company’s revenue recognition policy are presented as contract liabilities.
Similarly, contractual arrangements with suppliers and manufacturers normally involved with the manufacturing of scrubber units may require advances and deposits at various stages of the manufacturing process. Payments to our manufacturing partners are recorded as contract assets until the equipment is manufactured to specifications and accepted by the customer.
The Company presents the contract liabilities and contract assets on its balance sheet when one of the parties to the revenue contract has performed before the other.
2.Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
(i)Warranty Provision
The Company reserves a 2% warranty provision on the completion of a contract following the final payment, there being a number of milestone-based stage payments. The specific terms and conditions of those warranties vary depending upon the product sold and geography of sale. The Company’s product warranties generally start from the delivery date and continue for up to twelve to twenty-four months. The Company provides warranties to customers for the design, materials, and installation of scrubber units. The Company has a back-to-back manufacturing guarantee from its major supplier, which covers materials, production, and installation. Factors that affect the Company’s warranty obligation include product failure rates, anticipated hours of product operations and costs of repair or replacement in correcting product failures. These factors are estimates that may change based on new information that becomes available each period. Similarly, the Company also accrues the estimated costs to address reliability repairs on products no longer in warranty when, in the Company’s judgment, and in accordance with a specific plan developed by the Company, it is prudent to provide such repairs. The Company intends to assess the adequacy of recorded warranty liabilities quarterly and makes adjustments to the liability as necessary.
(j)Income Taxes
The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method. The asset and liability method provides that deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred income tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized.
The Company provides for interest and potential administrative penalties where management has assessed that the probability of assessment is greater than 50%. Interest and penalties assessed or expected to be assessed by tax authorities are included in tax expense for the period.
(k)Foreign Currency Translation
The Company’s functional and reporting currency is the United States dollar. The functional currencies of PGTA, PGTC, PGMT US, PGMTL, PGTrad, PGM Can, and PGN are the United States dollar. The functional currency of ENGIN and GNPE are the Chinese Yuan. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets, liabilities, and items recorded in income arising from transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at rates of exchange in effect at the date of the transaction. Gains and losses arising on translation or settlement of foreign currency denominated transactions or balances are included in the determination of income.
The accounts of ENGIN and GNPE are translated to United States dollars using the current rate method. Accordingly, assets and liabilities are translated into United States dollars at the period-end exchange rate while revenue and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates during the period. Related exchange gains and losses are included in a separate component of stockholders’ equity as accumulated other comprehensive income.
(l)Research and Development
Research and development costs are charged as operating expenses as incurred.
(m)Stock-based compensation
The Company records stock-based compensation using the fair value method. All transactions in which goods or services are the consideration received for the issuance of equity instruments are accounted for based on the fair value of the consideration received or the fair value of the equity instrument issued.
The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the fair value of stock-based awards. This model is affected by the Company’s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of subjective variables. These subjective variables include but are not limited to the Company’s expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as an expense in the consolidated statement of operations over the requisite service period. The majority of the Company’s awards vest upon issuance.
2.Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Subsequent to the adoption of ASU 2018-07 - Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting, the accounting for employee and non-employee stock options is now aligned.
(n)Earnings (Loss) Per Share
The Company computes net income (loss) per share in accordance with ASC 260, Earnings per Share. ASC 260 requires presentation of both basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) on the face of the consolidated statement of operations. Basic EPS is computed by dividing net income (loss) (numerator) by the weighted average number of shares outstanding (denominator) during the period. Diluted EPS gives effect to all dilutive potential options and warrants outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method and convertible debenture using the if-converted method. In computing diluted EPS, the average stock price for the period is used in determining the number of shares assumed to be purchased from the exercise of stock options or warrants. Diluted EPS excludes all dilutive potential shares if their effect is anti-dilutive. As at March 31, 2020, the Company had nil (2019 - 7,918,343) anti-dilutive shares outstanding.
(o)Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Comprehensive income (loss) consists of net income (loss) and items in other comprehensive income (loss) that are excluded from net income or loss. As at March 31, 2020 and 2019, other comprehensive income (loss) includes cumulative translation adjustments for changes in foreign currency exchange rates during the period.
(p)Newly Adopted Accounting Pronouncements