Level 2 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets); or model-derived valuations in which significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data.
Level 3
Level 3 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
Our company’s financial instruments consist principally of cash, accounts receivable, lease receivable, amounts due from and to related parties, accounts payable and accrued liabilities, operating lease liability, and convertible debenture. The recorded values of all financial instruments approximate their current fair values because of their nature and respective maturity dates or durations.
Stock-based compensation
The Company records share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from employees and nonemployees in accordance with ASC 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, using the fair value method. All transactions in which goods or services are the consideration received for the issuance of equity instruments are measured at grant-date fair value of the equity instruments issued.
The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the fair value of stock-based awards. This model is affected by the Company’s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of subjective variables. These subjective variables include but are not limited to the Company’s expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as an expense in the consolidated statement of operations over the requisite service period. The majority of the Company’s awards vest upon issuance.
Contract Liabilities and Contract Assets
Contractual arrangements with customers for the sale of a scrubber unit generally provide for deposits and instalments through the procurement and design phases of equipment manufacturing. Amounts received from customers, which are not yet recorded as revenues under the Company’s revenue recognition policy are presented as contract liabilities.
Similarly, contractual arrangements with suppliers and manufacturers normally involved with the manufacturing of scrubber units may require advances and deposits at various stages of the manufacturing process. Payments to our manufacturing partners are recorded as contract assets until the equipment is manufactured to specifications and accepted by the customer.
The Company presents the contract liabilities and contract assets on its balance sheet when one of the parties to the revenue contract has performed before the other.
Warranty Provision
The Company reserves a 2% warranty provision on the completion of a contract following the final payment, there being a number of milestone-based stage payments. The specific terms and conditions of those warranties vary depending upon the product sold and geography of sale. The Company’s product warranties generally start from the delivery date and continue for up to twelve to twenty-four months. The Company provides warranties to customers for the design, materials, and installation of scrubber units. The Company has a back-to-back manufacturing guarantee from its major supplier, which covers materials, production, and installation. Factors that affect the Company’s warranty obligation include product failure rates, anticipated hours of product operations and costs of repair or replacement in correcting product failures. These factors are estimates that may change based on new information that becomes available each period. Similarly, the Company also accrues the estimated costs to address reliability repairs on products no longer in warranty when, in the Company’s judgment, and in accordance with a specific plan developed by the Company, it is prudent to provide such repairs. The Company intends to assess the adequacy of recorded warranty liabilities quarterly and makes adjustments to the liability as necessary.
Lease
In February 2016, the FASB issued new lease accounting guidance in ASU No. 2016-02, “Leases”. This new guidance eliminates the concept of off-balance sheet treatment for “operating leases” for lessees for the vast majority of lease contracts. Under ASU No. 2016-02, at inception, a lessee must classify all leases with a term of over one year as either finance or operating, with both classifications resulting in the recognition of a defined “right-of-use” asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet. However, recognition in the income statement will differ depending on the lease classification, with finance leases recognizing the amortization of the right-of-use asset separate from the interest on the lease liability and operating leases recognizing a single total lease expense. ASU No. 2016-02 was in effect for public companies in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. The Company adopted the new guidance as of April 1, 2019.
The Company elected to apply the package of practical expedients which allows entities not to reassess its previous conclusions about lease identification, lease classification, and initial direct costs. The Company elected not to use hindsight to determine lease terms and to not separate non-lease components from the associated lease component. The Company had no operating leases that were adjusted upon transition as existing leases had duration of 12 months or less at the time of transition. The Company commenced a new operating lease on premises on April 1, 2019 and recognized a right-of-use asset of $1,526,801 and a lease liability of $1,486,605 as of April 1, 2019. The adoption of the new lease standard did not materially impact the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss) or the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Item 7A.
section_7A: Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
As a “smaller reporting company”, we are not required to provide the information required by this Item.
Item 8.
section_8: Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
PACIFIC GREEN TECHNOLOGIES INC.
Consolidated Financial Statements
March 31, 2020
(Expressed in US dollars)
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors
Pacific Green Technologies Inc.:
Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Pacific Green Technologies Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of March 31, 2020 and 2019, the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss), stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the two-year period ended March 31, 2020, and the related notes (collectively, the consolidated financial statements). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of March 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years then ended, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Change in Accounting Principle
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has adopted Accounting Standards Update 2016-02, “Leases”, on April 1, 2019, the date of initial application.
Basis for Opinion
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of our audits, we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Chartered Professional Accountants
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2019.
Vancouver, Canada
July 14, 2020
PACIFIC GREEN TECHNOLOGIES INC.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(Expressed in U.S. dollars)
Nature of Operations (Note 1)
Commitment (Note 18)
Subsequent events (Note 20)
(The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements)
PACIFIC GREEN TECHNOLOGIES INC.
Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss
(Expressed in U.S. dollars)
(1)the periods ended March 31, 2020, include 487,500 stock options are they are exercisable at any time and for nominal cash consideration.
(The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements)
PACIFIC GREEN TECHNOLOGIES INC.
Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity
(Expressed in U.S. dollars)
(The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements)
PACIFIC GREEN TECHNOLOGIES INC.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(Expressed in U.S. dollars)
(The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements)
1.Nature of Operations
Pacific Green Technologies Inc. (the “Company”) was incorporated in the state of Delaware, USA on March 10, 1994, under the name of Beta Acquisition Corp. In September 1995, the Company changed its name to In-Sports International, Inc. In August 2002, the Company changed its name to ECash, Inc. On June 13, 2012, the Company changed its name to Pacific Green Technologies Inc. The Company is in the business of acquiring, developing, and marketing environmental technologies, with a focus on emission control technologies. On December 20, 2019, the Company acquired Shanghai Engin Digital Technology Co. Ltd., a company incorporated and registered in China (“Engin”). Engin is a solar design, development, and engineering company (Note 7).
2.Significant Accounting Policies
(a)Basis of Presentation
These consolidated financial statements and related notes are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and are expressed in U.S. dollars. The following accounting policies are consistently applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. These consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and the following entities:
All inter-company balances and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation.
(b)Use of Estimates
The preparation of these consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. The Company regularly evaluates estimates and assumptions related to the useful life and recoverability of property and equipment and intangible assets, contract assets and liabilities associated with revenue contracts in progress, contingent consideration on asset acquisition, warranty accruals, fair values of convertible debentures and derivative liabilities, and deferred income tax asset valuation allowances. The Company bases its estimates and assumptions on current facts, historical experience and various other factors that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the accrual of costs and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. The actual results experienced by the Company may differ materially and adversely from the Company’s estimates. To the extent there are material differences between the estimates and the actual results, future results of operations will be affected.
2.Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
(c)Property and Equipment