We previously identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in connection with a revision to previously issued financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 relating to the provision for income taxes resulting from the incorrect use of tax attributes. We identified that the cause of the income tax provision adjustment was a lack of qualified tax personnel with an appropriate level of experience to review the use of tax attributes in accordance with tax ordering rules. While we remediated this material weakness as of December 31, 2018 through hiring additional experienced personnel, we can give no assurance that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We cannot assure you that the measures we have taken to date, and actions we may take in the future, will be sufficient to prevent or avoid potential future material weaknesses. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could result in an increased probability of fraud, the potential loss of customers, litigation from our stockholders, reduction in our ability to obtain financing, and require additional expenditures to remediate. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and a decline in our stock price, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities.
The failure to successfully implement and maintain accounting systems could materially adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
In the third quarter of 2019, we implemented a new third-party revenue accounting system in order to automate our revenue accounting and reporting processes. System implementations of this scale are complex and time-consuming projects that require transformations of business and financial processes. Such transformations involve risk inherent in the conversion to a new system, including loss of information and potential disruption to normal operations. Additionally, if our revenue and other accounting or tax systems do not operate as intended or do not scale with anticipated growth in our business, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected. Any failure to develop, implement, or maintain effective internal controls related to our revenue and other accounting or tax systems and associated reporting could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, if we experience interruptions in service or operational difficulties with our revenue and other accounting or tax systems, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.
Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by changes in accounting principles.
The accounting for our business is subject to change based on the evolution of our business model, interpretations of relevant accounting principles, enforcement of existing or new regulations, and changes in policies, rules, regulations, and interpretations, of accounting and financial reporting requirements of the SEC or other regulatory agencies. Adoption of a change in accounting principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported results of operations and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the adoption of such change. It is difficult to predict the impact of future changes to accounting principles and accounting policies over financial reporting, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and could require significant investment in systems and personnel.
Avoiding regulation under the Investment Company Act may adversely affect our operations.
The Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”), contains substantive legal requirements that regulate the manner in which “investment companies” are permitted to conduct their business activities. We currently conduct, and intend to continue to conduct, our operations so that neither we nor any of our subsidiaries are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We are not engaged primarily, nor do we hold ourselves out as being engaged primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting, or trading in securities, and neither do we intend to own investment securities with a combined value in excess of 40% of the value, as determined by our board of directors, of our total assets, exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items, on an unconsolidated basis. We do, however, make minority investments in companies and acquire other financial instruments from time to time
that may be deemed investment securities. We expect to conduct our operations such that the value of those investments will not rise to a level where we might be deemed an investment company, but there can be no assurances that we will be successful in maintaining the required ratios without taking actions that may adversely affect our operations. For example, to avoid being deemed an investment company we may be required to sell certain of our assets and pay significant taxes upon the sale or transfer of such assets, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
Item 1B.
section_1B: Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
None.
Item 2.
section_2: Item 2. Properties
We are headquartered in San Francisco, California, where we have lease commitments for approximately 948,000 square feet, including approximately 170,000 square feet offered for sublease, across multiple buildings. As of December 31, 2020, we leased office facilities totaling approximately 1.9 million square feet in multiple locations in the United States and internationally. We believe our facilities are adequate and suitable for our current needs.
Item 3.
section_3: Item 3. Legal Proceedings
We are currently involved in, and may in the future be involved in, legal proceedings, claims, and government investigations in the ordinary course of business. These include proceedings, claims, and investigations relating to, among other things, regulatory matters, commercial matters, intellectual property, competition, tax, employment, pricing, discrimination, consumer rights, personal injury, and property rights. See Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies - Legal and Regulatory Matters to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
These matters also include the following:
•On November 23, 2020, an individual plaintiff filed a complaint asserting patent and trade secrets claims against Airbnb, Inc. in the Northern District of California. The patent at issue relates to a method of reflecting a place to stay listing in a geospatial environment. The complaint asserts direct and indirect infringement and willfulness. We intend to vigorously defend the lawsuit.
Depending on the nature of the proceeding, claim, or investigation, we may be subject to monetary damage awards, fines, penalties, or injunctive orders. Furthermore, the outcome of these matters could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The outcomes of legal proceedings, claims, and government investigations are inherently unpredictable and subject to significant judgment to determine the likelihood and amount of loss related to such matters. While it is not possible to determine the outcomes, we believe based on our current knowledge that the resolution of all such pending matters will not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition.
Item 4.
section_4: Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
PART II
Item 5.
section_5: Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Market Information for Class A Common Stock
Our Class A common stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “ABNB” since December 10, 2020. Prior to that date, there was no public trading market for our Class A common stock. Our Class B, Class C, and Class H common stock are neither listed nor publicly traded.
Holders of our Common Stock
As of February 11, 2021, there were 220 stockholders of record of our Class A common stock. The actual number of stockholders is greater than this number of record holders and includes stockholders who are beneficial owners but whose shares are held in street name by brokers and other nominees.
As of February 11, 2021, there were 308 stockholders of record of our Class B common stock.
As of February 11, 2021, there were no shares of our Class C common stock outstanding and our wholly-owned Host Endowment Fund subsidiary held all of the outstanding shares of our Class H common stock.
Dividend Policy
We intend to retain any future earnings and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The terms of certain of our outstanding debt instruments restrict our ability to pay dividends or make distributions, and we may enter into credit agreements or other borrowing arrangements in the future that may restrict our ability to declare or pay cash dividends or make distributions. Any future determination to declare cash dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to applicable laws and will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, general business conditions, and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
Plan-Related Issuances
From January 1, 2020 through December 10, 2020 (the date of the filing of our registration statement on Form S-8), we granted to our directors, officers, employees, consultants, and other service providers options to purchase an aggregate of 4,635,058 shares of our Class B common stock under our 2018 Equity Incentive Plan (“2018 Plan”), at exercise prices ranging from $29.36 to $59.53 per share.
From January 1, 2020 through December 10, 2020 (the date of the filing of our registration statement on Form S-8), we granted to our directors, officers, employees, consultants, and other service providers restricted stock units for an aggregate of 40,725,440 shares of our Class B common stock under our 2018 Plan.
From January 1, 2020 through December 10, 2020 (the date of the filing of our registration statement on Form S-8), we issued and sold to our employees, consultants, and other services providers an aggregate of 5,203,116 shares of Class B common stock upon the exercise of options issued under our 2008 Equity Incentive Plan (“2008 Plan”) at exercise prices ranging from $0.052 to $29.96 per share, for an aggregate exercise price of $6,755,306.
From January 1, 2020 through December 10, 2020 (the date of the filing of our registration statement on Form S-8), we issued and sold to our employees, consultants, and other services providers an aggregate of 7,054 shares of Class B common stock upon the exercise of options issued under our 2018 Plan at exercise prices ranging from $4.82 to $10.15 per share, for an aggregate exercise price of $52,260.
From January 1, 2020 through December 10, 2020 (the date of the filing of our registration statement on Form S-8), we issued and sold to our employees, consultants, and other services providers an aggregate of 33,061 shares of Class A common stock upon the exercise of options issued under our Hotel Tonight, Inc. 2011 Equity Incentive Plan at exercise prices ranging from $17.51 to $26.19 per share, for an aggregate exercise price of $752,913.
The offers, sales, and issuances of the securities described above were deemed to be exempt from registration under Rule 701 promulgated under the Securities Act as transactions under compensatory benefit plans and contracts relating to compensation, or under Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act as a transaction by an issuer not involving a public offering. The recipients of such securities were our directors, employees, or bona fide consultants and received the securities under our equity incentive plans. Appropriate legends were affixed to the securities issued in these transactions.