In order to offset our potential exposure related to stays and experiences and to comply with certain short-term rental regulatory requirements, we have procured Host Protection and Experience Protection general liability insurance from third parties, which are subject to certain terms, conditions, and exclusions, for claims from guests and third parties for bodily injury or property damage arising from bookings of stays and experiences through our platform. We and our hosts are insured parties, and landlords, homeowners or condo-owners associations, and any other similar entities, are additional insured parties. However, these insurance programs may not provide coverage for certain types of claims, including those relating to contagious diseases such as COVID-19, and may be insufficient to fully cover costs of investigation, costs of defense, and payments or judgments arising from covered claims. In addition, extensive or costly claims could lead to premium increases or difficulty securing coverage, which may result in increased financial exposure and an inability to meet insurance regulatory requirements.
Corporate Insurance
We procure insurance policies to cover various business and operations-related risks that are normal and customary and available in the current insurance market, including general business liability, workers’ compensation, cyber liability and data breaches, crime, directors’ and officers’ liability, and property insurance. We do not have sufficient coverage for certain catastrophic events, including certain business interruption losses, such as those resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, certain policies may not be available to us and the policies we have and obtain in the future may not be sufficient to cover all of our business exposure.
Captive Insurance Company
We have a wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary to manage the financial exposure related to our host and experiences protection insurance programs along with certain corporate insurance programs. Our captive insurance subsidiary is a party to certain reinsurance and indemnification arrangements that transfer a portion of the risk from our insurance providers to the captive insurance subsidiary, which could require us to pay out material amounts that may be in excess of our insurance reserves. As our business continues to develop and diversify, we may choose to or have to transfer more risk to our captive insurance subsidiary as it may become more difficult to obtain insurance with current retentions or deductibles and with similar terms to cover our exposure. Our insurance reserves account includes unpaid losses, loss adjustment expenses for risks, and other associated expenses, such as defense costs retained by us through our captive insurance subsidiary. These amounts are based on third-party actuarial estimates, historical claim information, and industry data. While these reserves are believed to be adequate, our ultimate liability could be in excess of our reserves, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.
Host Guarantee Program
We maintain a Host Guarantee Program that provides reimbursement of up to $1 million for loss or damages to a host property caused by guests, subject to terms and conditions. While the Host Guarantee Program is a commercial agreement with our hosts and for which we are primarily responsible, we maintain a contractual liability insurance policy to provide coverage to us for claims and losses incurred by us under the Host Guarantee Program. Increased claim frequency and severity and increased fraudulent claims could result in greater payouts, premium increases, and/or difficulty securing coverage. Further, disputes with hosts as to whether the Host Guarantee Program applies to alleged losses or damages and the increased submission of fraudulent payment requests could require significant time and financial resources.
Our community support function is critical to the success of our platform, and any failure to provide high-quality service could affect our ability to retain our existing hosts and guests and attract new ones.
Our ability to provide high-quality support to our community of hosts and guests is important for the growth of our business and any failure to maintain such standards of community support, or any perception that we do not provide high-quality service, could affect our ability to retain and attract hosts and guests. Meeting the community support expectations of our hosts and guests requires significant time and resources from our community support team and significant investment in staffing, technology, including automation and machine learning
to improve efficiency, infrastructure, policies, and community support tools. The failure to develop the appropriate technology, infrastructure, policies, and community support tools, or to manage or properly train our community support team, could compromise our ability to resolve questions and complaints quickly and effectively. The number of our hosts and guests has grown significantly and such growth, as well as any future growth, will put additional pressure on our community support organization and our technology organization. In addition, as we service a global customer base and continue to grow outside of North America and Europe, we need to be able to provide effective support that meets our hosts’ and guests’ needs and languages globally at scale. As part of our reduction in force announced in May 2020, we significantly reduced the number of employees in our community support organization and our technology organization, which impacted our ability to provide effective support to our hosts and guests. Our service is staffed based on complex algorithms that map to our business forecasts. Any volatility in those forecasts could lead to staffing gaps that could impact the quality of our service. We have in the past experienced and may in the future experience backlog incidents that lead to substantial delays or other issues in responding to requests for customer support, which may reduce our ability to effectively retain hosts and guests.
The vast majority of our community support is performed by a limited number of third-party service providers. We rely on our internal team and these third parties to provide timely and appropriate responses to the inquiries of hosts and guests that come to us via telephone, email, social media, and chat. Reliance on these third parties requires that we provide proper guidance and training for their employees, maintain proper controls and procedures for interacting with our community, and ensure acceptable levels of quality and customer satisfaction are achieved.
We provide community support to hosts and guests and help to mediate disputes between hosts and guests. We rely on information provided by hosts and guests and are at times limited in our ability to provide adequate support or help hosts and guests resolve disputes due to our lack of information or control. To the extent that hosts and guests are not satisfied with the quality or timeliness of our community support or third-party support, we may not be able to retain hosts or guests, and our reputation as well as our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.
When a host or guest has a poor experience on our platform, we may issue refunds or coupons for future stays. These refunds and coupons are generally treated as a reduction to revenue, and we may make payouts for property damage claims under our Host Guarantee Program, which we account for as consideration paid to a customer and is also generally treated as a reduction in revenue. A robust community support effort is costly, and we expect such cost to continue to rise in the future as we grow our business. We have historically seen a significant number of community support inquiries from hosts and guests. Our efforts to reduce the number of community support requests may not be effective, and we could incur increased costs without corresponding revenue, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
A significant portion of our bookings and revenue are denominated in foreign currencies, and our financial results are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates.
A significant portion of our business is denominated and transacted in foreign currencies, which subjects us to foreign exchange risk. We offer integrated payments to our hosts and guests in over 40 currencies. Generally speaking, U.S. dollar strength adversely impacts the translation of the portion of our revenue that is generated in foreign currencies into the U.S. dollar. For the year ended December 31, 2020, approximately 50% of our revenue was denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Our results of operations could also be negatively impacted by a strengthening of the U.S. dollar as a large portion of our costs are U.S. dollar-denominated. We also have foreign exchange risk with respect to certain of our assets, principally cash balances held on behalf of hosts and guests, that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries, and our financial results are affected by the remeasurement and translation of these non-U.S. currencies into U.S. dollars, which is reflected in the effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash on the consolidated statements of cash flows. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the effects of exchange rates on our cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash totaled $134.1 million due to fluctuations in exchange rates and the weakening of the U.S. dollar. Furthermore, our platform generally enables guests to make payments in the currency of their choice to the extent that the currency is supported by Airbnb, which may not match the currency in which the host elects to get paid. In those cases, we bear the currency risk of both the guest payment as well as the host payment due to timing differences in such payments. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded net foreign currency gains of $31.5 million in our consolidated statement of operations. While we have and may choose to enter into transactions to hedge portions of our foreign currency translation and balance sheet exposure in the future, it is impossible to predict or eliminate the effects of foreign exchange rate exposure. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
The value of our equity investments in private companies could decline, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
Our equity investments in private companies where we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for using the measurement alternative. Such investments are carried at cost, less any impairments, and are adjusted for subsequent observable price changes, with such changes in value recognized in other income (expense), net in our consolidated statements of operations. Additionally, for our equity investments in private companies where we have the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, we record our proportionate share of net income or loss in other income (expense), net in our consolidated statements of operations. The financial statements provided by these companies are often unaudited. Our investments in private companies are inherently risky, including early-stage companies with limited cash to support their operations and companies whose results are negatively impacted by downturns in the travel industry, such as the one currently occurring. The companies in which we invest include early-stage companies that may still be developing products and services with limited cash to support the development, marketing and sales of their products. Further, our ability to liquidate such investments is typically dependent on a liquidity event, such as a public offering or acquisition, as no public market currently exists for the securities held in the investees. Valuations of privately-held companies are inherently complex and uncertain due to the lack of a liquid market for the securities of such companies. If we determine that any of our investments in such companies have experienced a decline in value, we will recognize an expense to adjust the carrying value to its estimated fair value. We recorded impairment charges of $82.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 relating to investments in private companies, and may experience similar or
greater losses on our investments in the future. Negative changes in the estimated fair value of private companies in which we invest could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.