The following table sets forth our unaudited quarterly consolidated results of operations for each of the quarterly periods for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020. These unaudited quarterly results of operations have been prepared on the same basis as our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the opinion of management, the financial information set forth in the table below reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for the fair statement of results of operations for these periods. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in the future, and the results of a particular quarter or other interim period are not necessarily indicative of the results for a full year. You should read the following unaudited quarterly consolidated results of operations in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Quarterly Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations
(1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows:
(2)For the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded $868.5 million of fair value remeasurement on our warrants issued in connection with our second lien loan, the majority of which was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2020. Refer to Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
Quarterly Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations, as a Percentage of Revenue
Liquidity and Capital Resources
In December 2020, upon the completion of our IPO, we received net proceeds of $3.7 billion after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $79.3 million and offering expenses of $9.8 million. We used a portion of these net proceeds to satisfy the tax withholding and remittance obligations of approximately $1.6 billion related to the settlement of our outstanding RSUs in connection with our IPO.
As of December 31, 2020, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents of $5.5 billion and marketable securities of $0.9 billion, which included $1.2 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively, held by foreign subsidiaries. Cash and cash equivalents consist of checking and interest-bearing accounts and highly-liquid securities with an original maturity of 90 days or less. Marketable securities consist of corporate debt securities, mutual funds, highly-liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, and certificates of deposit. These amounts do not include funds of $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2020 that we held for bookings in advance of guests completing check-ins that we record separately on our balance sheet in funds receivable and amounts held on behalf of customers with a corresponding liability in funds payable and amounts payable to customers.
Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held outside the United States may be repatriated, subject to certain limitations, and would be available to be used to fund our domestic operations. However, repatriation of such funds may result in additional tax liabilities. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances in the United States are sufficient to fund our working capital needs in the United States.
Loan Agreements
In April 2020, we entered into a $1.0 billion First Lien Credit and Guaranty Agreement (the “First Lien Credit Agreement,” and the loans thereunder, the “First Lien Loan”), resulting in proceeds of $961.4 million, net of debt discount and issuance costs. The loan is due and payable in April 2025. The underlying loan can be repaid in whole or in part prior to April 2025 at our option, subject to applicable prepayment premiums and make-whole premiums. Beginning in September 2020, we are required to repay the First Lien Loan in quarterly installments equal to 0.25% of the $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the First Lien Loan, with the remaining principal amount payable on the maturity date. Interest on the First Lien Loan is payable monthly or quarterly in arrears at our option depending on the chosen per annum interest rate equal to (i) in the case of LIBOR borrowings, 7.5% plus the London interbank offered rate (customarily defined, with LIBOR replacement provisions consistent with the April 2019 Alternative Reference Rates Commission recommended fallback language for syndicated loans, “LIBOR”), subject to a floor of 1%, or (ii) in the case of base rate borrowings, 6.5% plus the greatest of (a) the prime rate, (b) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.5%, and (c) LIBOR for a one-month period plus 1%, in each case subject to a floor of 2%.
In April 2020, we entered into a $1.0 billion Second Lien Credit and Guaranty Agreement (the “Second Lien Credit Agreement,” and the loans thereunder, the “Second Lien Loan”), resulting in proceeds of $967.5 million, net of debt discount and issuance costs. The loan is due and payable in July 2025. The underlying loan can be repaid in whole or in part prior to July 2025 at our option, subject to applicable prepayment premiums and make-whole premiums and the priority of lenders under the First Lien Credit Agreement over any proceeds we receive from the sale of collateral. Interest on the Second Lien Loan is payable monthly or quarterly in arrears at our option depending on the chosen per annum interest rate equal to (i) in the case of LIBOR borrowings, 10% plus LIBOR, in each case subject to a floor of 1%, or (ii) in the case of base rate borrowings, 9% plus the greatest of (a) the prime rate, (b) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.5%, and (c) LIBOR for a one-month period plus 1%, subject to a floor of 3%. In addition, at our election, payment-in-kind interest up to 5.5% per annum may be paid by increasing the principal amount of the Second Lien Loan by such amount.
In connection with the Second Lien Loan, we issued warrants to purchase 7,934,794 shares of Class A common stock with an initial exercise price of $28.355 per share, subject to adjustments upon the occurrence of certain specified events, to the Second Lien Loan lenders. The warrants expire on April 17, 2030 and the exercise price can be settled in cash or in net shares at the holder’s option. The fair value of the warrants of $116.6 million at issuance was recorded as a liability on the consolidated balance sheet, and the warrant liability is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date as long as the warrants remain outstanding and unexercised with changes in fair value recorded in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of operations. As of December 31, 2020, the fair value of the warrant totaled $985.2 million, or an increase in liability of $868.5 million since their issuance in April 2020.
The First Lien Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement include customary conditions to borrowing, events of default, and covenants, including those that restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, create or incur liens, merge or consolidate with other companies, liquidate or dissolve, sell or transfer assets, pay dividends or make distributions, make acquisitions, investments, loans or advances, or payments and prepayments of junior or unsecured indebtedness, subject to certain exceptions. As of December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with all covenants of the First Lien Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement.
2020 Credit Facility
In November 2020, we entered into a $500.0 million five-year senior secured revolving Credit and Guarantee Agreement (the “Revolving Credit Agreement”), which provides for an initial borrowing commitment by a group of lenders led by Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. of $500.0 million (the “2020 Credit Facility”). The 2020 Credit Facility provides a $200.0 million sub-limit for the issuance of letters of credit. The 2020 Credit Facility has a commitment fee of 0.15% per annum on any undrawn amounts, payable quarterly in arrears. Interest on borrowings is equal to (i) in the case of LIBOR borrowings, 1.5% plus LIBOR, subject to a floor of 0%, or (ii) in the case of base rate borrowings, 0.5% plus the greatest of (a) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.5%, (b) the prime rate, and (c) LIBOR for a one-month period plus 1%, in each case subject to a floor of 1%.
The Revolving Credit Agreement includes customary conditions to borrowing, events of default, and covenants, including a minimum liquidity covenant requiring us to have liquidity of at least $200.0 million as of the last day of each fiscal quarter and those that restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, create or incur liens, merge or consolidate with other companies, liquidate or dissolve, sell or transfer assets, pay dividends or make distributions, subject to certain exceptions.
As of December 31, 2020, the principal amount of the borrowings outstanding under the First Lien Loan and Second Lien Loan totaled $1,995.0 million. As of December 31, 2020, there were no borrowings outstanding on the 2020 Credit Facility and outstanding letters of credit totaled approximately $21.4 million.
2016 Credit Facility
In April 2020, we terminated our 2016 Credit Facility, which provided an initial borrowing commitment by a group of lenders led by Bank of America, N.A. of $1.0 billion. The 2016 Credit Facility also provided a $100.0 million sub-limit for the issuance of letters of credit. The 2016 Credit Facility had a commitment fee of 0.125% per annum on any undrawn amounts. Outstanding borrowings bore interest at a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds effective rate plus one-half of 1.00%, (ii) the rate of interest in effect for such day by Bank of America as its “prime rate,” or (iii) the eurocurrency rate for one month plus 1.00%.
As of December 31, 2019, there were no borrowings outstanding on the 2016 Credit Facility and outstanding letters of credit totaled $53.0 million. The 2016 Credit Facility contained customary affirmative and negative covenants, including restrictions on our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to incur debt and liens, undergo fundamental changes, and pay dividends or other distributions, as well as certain financial covenants. We were in compliance with all covenants as of December 31, 2019. On April 17, 2020, we terminated the 2016 Credit Facility. Certain letters of credit under the 2016 Credit Facility were transferred to new issuers upon the termination of the 2016 Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2020, letters of credit formerly under the 2016 Credit Facility totaled $32.9 million and were collateralized by $33.8 million of restricted cash on the consolidated balance sheet.
We believe that our current available cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our operational cash needs for the foreseeable future. Our future capital requirements, however, will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to our growth, headcount, ability to attract and retain hosts and guests on our platform, capital expenditures, acquisitions, introduction of new products and offerings, timing and extent of spending to support our efforts to develop our platform, and expansion of sales and marketing activities. Additionally, we may in the future raise additional capital or incur additional indebtedness to continue to fund our strategic initiatives. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may seek to raise additional funds at any time through equity, equity-linked arrangements, and/or debt, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired and at reasonable rates, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We expect our capital expenditures in 2021 will be higher than that of 2020, but significantly lower than 2019. The majority of our expected investments are related to office improvements in North America, many of which were delayed in 2020.
Cash Flows
The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated:
Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities