Future transfers by holders of Class B common stock will generally result in those shares converting to Class A common stock, subject to limited exceptions, such as certain transfers effected for estate planning purposes or transfers among our founders, if all of our founders agree to such transfers. Each share of our Class B common stock is convertible at any time at the option of the Class B holder into one share of Class A common stock. The conversion of Class B common stock to Class A common stock will have the effect, over time, of increasing the relative voting power of those holders of Class B common stock who retain their shares in the long term. As a result, it is possible that one or more of the persons or entities holding our Class B common stock could gain significant voting control as other holders of Class B common stock sell or otherwise convert their shares into Class A common stock. In addition, the conversion of Class B common stock to Class A common stock would dilute holders of Class A common stock in terms of voting power within the Class A common stock. In addition, any future issuances of common stock would be dilutive to holders of Class A common stock. For example, because our Class C common stock carries no voting rights (except as otherwise required by law), if we issue Class C common stock in the future, the holders of Class B common stock may be able to elect all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders for a longer period of time than would be the case if we issued Class A common stock rather than Class C common stock in such transactions. Further, each outstanding share of Class H common stock will convert into a share of Class A common stock on a share-for-share basis upon the sale of such share of Class H common stock to any person or entity that is not our subsidiary, which would dilute holders of Class A common stock in terms of voting power within the Class A common stock.
We cannot predict the effect our multi-series structure may have on the market price of our Class A common stock.
We cannot predict whether our multi-series structure will result in a lower or more volatile market price of our Class A common stock, in adverse publicity, or other adverse consequences. For example, certain index providers, such as S&P Dow Jones, have announced restrictions on including companies with multiple-class share structures in certain of their indices, including the S&P 500. Accordingly, the multi-series structure of our common stock would make us ineligible for inclusion in certain indices and, as a result, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, and other investment vehicles that attempt to passively track those indices may not invest in our Class A common stock. These policies are relatively new and it is unclear what effect, if any, they will have on the valuations of publicly-traded companies excluded from such indices, but it is possible that they may depress valuations, as compared to similar companies that are included. Because of the multi-class structure of our common stock, we will likely be excluded from certain indices and we cannot assure that other stock indices will not take similar actions. Given the sustained flow of investment funds into passive strategies that seek to track certain indices, exclusion from certain stock indices would likely preclude investment by many of these funds and could make our Class A common stock less attractive to other investors. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected.
Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our share price to fall.
Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur in large quantities, could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. As of December 31, 2020, we had 115,499,875 shares of Class A common stock outstanding, 483,697,162 shares of Class B common stock outstanding, no shares of Class C common stock outstanding, and 9,200,000 shares of Class H common stock outstanding.
As of immediately following the closing of our initial public offering in December 2020, the holders of up to 453,853,793 shares of our common stock, options to purchase 13,788,876 shares of common stock, and warrants to purchase 7,934,794 shares of common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements for the public resale of the Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of such shares or to include such shares in registration statements that we may file for us or other stockholders. Any
registration statement we file to register additional shares, whether as a result of registration rights or otherwise, could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline or be volatile.
Further, as of December 31, 2020, we had 41,420,645 options outstanding that, if fully exercised, would result in the issuance of 27,631,769 shares of Class A common stock and 13,788,876 shares of Class B common stock, as well as 47,754,231 shares of Class A common stock issuable upon vesting of outstanding RSUs, which have been registered on Form S-8 under the Securities Act. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to applicable vesting requirements, compliance by affiliates with Rule 144, and other restrictions provided under the terms of the applicable plan and/or the award agreements entered into with participants. In addition, we filed a registration statement and may in the future file registration statements covering shares of our common stock issued pursuant to our equity incentive plans permitting the resale of such shares by non-affiliates in the public market without restriction under the Securities Act and the sale by affiliates in the public market subject to compliance with the resale provisions of Rule 144.
We and all of our directors, executive officers, and certain other record holders that together represent approximately 80% of our outstanding Class A common stock and securities directly or indirectly convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our Class A common stock, calculated as of immediately prior to our initial public offering, are subject to lock-up agreements with the underwriters of our initial public offering or market standoff agreements with us that restrict their ability to transfer such shares of Class A common stock and such securities, including any hedging transactions, during the period ending on the later of (i) the opening of trading on the second trading day immediately following our public release of earnings for the first quarter of 2021 and (ii) the 121st day after December 9, 2020.
In addition, substantially all of the remaining approximately 20% of our outstanding Class A common stock and securities directly or indirectly convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our Class A common stock, including equity awards issued under our equity incentive plans, calculated as of immediately prior to our initial public offering, are subject to market standoff agreements with us that restrict certain transfers of such shares of Class A common stock and such securities during the restricted period. Notwithstanding the terms of such market standoff agreements, our insider trading policy prohibits hedging by all of our current directors, officers, employees and independent contractors. In addition to shares of our Class A common stock previously sold into the market to cover employee tax liability upon the vesting of equity awards, up to approximately 33.5 million shares of our Class A common stock and securities directly or indirectly convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our Class A common stock may be sold beginning at the opening of trading on March 1, 2021, which is the second trading day immediately following our public release of earnings for the fourth quarter of 2020, pursuant to the terms of the lock-up agreements with the underwriters of our initial public offering.
Upon the expiration of the restricted period described above, substantially all of the securities subject to such lock-up and market standoff restrictions will become eligible for sale, subject to compliance with applicable securities laws. Furthermore, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC may waive the lock-up agreements and market standoff agreements entered into by our executive officers, directors, and record holders of our securities before they expire.
Sales, short sales, or hedging transactions involving our equity securities, whether before or after our initial public offering and whether or not we believe them to be prohibited, could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock.
Record holders of our securities are typically the parties to the lock-up agreements with the underwriters and to the market standoff agreements with us referred to above, while holders of beneficial interests in our shares who are not also record holders in respect of such shares are not typically subject to any such agreements or other similar restrictions. Accordingly, we believe that holders of beneficial interests who are not record holders and are not bound by market standoff or lock-up agreements could enter into transactions with respect to those beneficial interests that negatively impact our stock price. In addition, an equityholder who is neither subject to a market standoff agreement with us nor a lock-up agreement with the underwriters may be able to sell, short sell, transfer, hedge, pledge, or otherwise dispose of or attempt to sell, short sell, transfer, hedge, pledge, or otherwise dispose of their equity interests at any time.
In November 2020, we issued 9,200,000 shares of our Class H common stock to our Host Endowment Fund and we have announced our intention to donate 400,000 shares of our Class A common stock to a charitable foundation, each of which has resulted or will result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. We may issue our shares of common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments, or otherwise. Any such issuance and any issuance of Class A common stock upon the conversion of Class B or Class H common stock could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the trading price of our Class A common stock to decline. See also our risk factor titled “ - Future sales and issuances of our Class A common stock or rights to purchase our Class A common stock, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, or other equity securities or securities convertible into our Class A common stock, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause the stock price of our Class A common stock to decline.”
Under our restated certificate of incorporation, we are authorized to issue 2,000,000,000 shares of Class C common stock. Any future issuance of Class C common stock may have the effect of further concentrating voting control in our Class B common stock, including the Class B common stock held by our founders, and may discourage potential acquisitions of our business and could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our Class A common stock.