In the European Union, the Consumer Rights Directive and the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive harmonized consumer rights across the EU member states. In 2018, the European Commission and a group of European consumer protection authorities (through the Consumer Protection Cooperation Network) investigated our customer terms and price display practices, which required us to make certain changes to our terms and price display practices. If Consumer Protection Regulators find that we are in breach of consumer protection laws, we may be fined or required to change our terms and processes, which may result in increased operational costs. Consumers and certain Consumer Protection Associations may also bring individual claims against us if they believe that our terms and/or business practices are not in
compliance with local consumer protection laws. Currently, class actions may also be brought in certain countries in the European Union, and the Collective Redress Directive will extend the right to collective redress across the European Union.
Home sharing may not achieve global acceptance.
While home sharing has grown in popularity, home sharing may not achieve global acceptance, particularly in regions where home sharing may not be deemed attractive to hosts and guests due to cultural considerations. The attractiveness of our platform for hosts and guests is impacted by a number of factors, including the willingness of individual hosts to offer their homes on our platform, the willingness of guests to book stays at homes in lieu of more traditional options, such as hotels, our ability to continue to extend our operating model internationally and offer localized services that are desirable to our hosts and guests, and our ability to offer cost-effective alternatives to traditional accommodations. Furthermore, both hosts and guests may be reluctant or unwilling to use our platform because of concerns regarding their safety or the quality of their stays. Many hosts and guests are apprehensive about or not willing to share homes due to concerns surrounding the transmission of COVID-19, and if they are willing to share homes, their ability to do so may be restricted by laws, rules, regulations, or decrees adopted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
This uncertainty surrounding acceptance of home sharing is exacerbated by the legacy system of laws and regulations that govern short and long-term accommodations, travel services, real estate brokerage services, and taxes, which generally does not directly address the online home sharing business model. If home sharing does not achieve global acceptance, our growth could be limited, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
Maintaining and enhancing our brand and reputation is critical to our growth, and negative publicity could damage our brand and thereby harm our ability to compete effectively, and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
Our brand and our reputation are among our most important assets. Maintaining and enhancing our brand and reputation is critical to our ability to attract hosts, guests, and employees, to compete effectively, to preserve and deepen the engagement of our existing hosts, guests, and employees, to maintain and improve our standing in the communities where our hosts operate, including our standing with community leaders and regulatory bodies, and to mitigate legislative or regulatory scrutiny, litigation, and government investigations. We are heavily dependent on the perceptions of hosts and guests who use our platform to help make word-of-mouth recommendations that contribute to our growth.
Any incident, whether actual or rumored to have occurred, involving the safety or security of listings, hosts, guests, or other members of the public, fraudulent transactions, or incidents that are mistakenly attributed to Airbnb, and any media coverage resulting therefrom, could create a negative public perception of our platform, which would adversely impact our ability to attract hosts and guests. In addition, when hosts cancel reservations or if we fail to provide timely refunds to guests in connection with cancellations, guest perception of the value of our platform is adversely impacted and may cause guests to not use our platform in the future. The impact of these issues may be more pronounced if we are seen to have failed to provide prompt and appropriate community support or our platform policies are perceived to be too permissive, too restrictive, or providing hosts and/or guests with unsatisfactory resolutions. We have been the subject of media reports, social media posts, blogs, and other forums that contain allegations about our business or activity on our platform that create negative publicity. As a result of these complaints and negative publicity, some hosts have refrained from, and may in the future refrain from, listing with us, and some guests have refrained from, and may in the future refrain from, using our platform, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
In addition, our brand and reputation could be harmed if we fail to act responsibly or are perceived as not acting responsibly, or fail to comply with regulatory requirements as interpreted by certain governments or agencies thereof, in a number of other areas, such as safety and security, data security, privacy practices, provision of information about users and activities on our platform, sustainability, human rights, diversity, non-discrimination, and support for employees and local communities. Media, legislative, or government scrutiny around our company, including the perceived impact on affordable housing and over-tourism, neighborhood nuisance, privacy practices, provision of information as requested by certain governments or agencies thereof, content on our platform, business practices and strategic plans, impact of travel on the environment, and public health policies that may cause geopolitical backlash, our business partners, private companies where we have minority investments, and our practices relating to our platform, offerings, employees, competition, litigation, and response to regulatory activity, could adversely affect our brand and our reputation with our hosts, guests, and communities. Social media compounds the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated and the speed with which such negative publicity may spread. Any resulting damage to our brand or reputation could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
In addition, we rely on our hosts and guests to provide trustworthy reviews and ratings that our hosts or guests may rely upon to help decide whether or not to book a particular listing or accept a particular booking and that we use to enforce quality standards. We rely on these reviews to further strengthen trust among members of our community. Our hosts and guests may be less likely to rely on reviews and ratings if they believe that our review system does not generate trustworthy reviews and ratings. We have procedures in place to combat fraud or abuse of our review system, but we cannot guarantee that these procedures are or will be effective. In addition, if our hosts and guests do not leave reliable reviews and ratings, other potential hosts or guests may disregard those reviews and ratings, and our systems that use reviews and ratings to enforce quality standards would be less effective, which could reduce trust within our community and damage our brand and reputation, and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
Host, guest, or third-party actions that are criminal, violent, inappropriate, or dangerous, or fraudulent activity, may undermine the safety or the perception of safety of our platform and our ability to attract and retain hosts and guests and materially adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition.
We have no control over or ability to predict the actions of our users and other third parties, such as neighbors or invitees, either during the guest’s stay, experience, or otherwise, and therefore, we cannot guarantee the safety of our hosts, guests, and third parties. The actions of hosts, guests, and other third parties have resulted and can further result in fatalities, injuries, other bodily harm, fraud, invasion of privacy, property damage, discrimination, brand and reputational damage, which have created and could continue to create potential legal or other substantial liabilities for us. We do not verify the identity of all of our hosts and guests nor do we verify or screen third parties who may be present during a reservation made through our platform. Our identity verification processes rely on, among other things, information provided by hosts and guests, and our ability to validate that information and the effectiveness of third-party service providers that support our verification processes may be limited. In addition, we do not currently and may not in the future require users to re-verify their identity following their successful completion of the initial verification process. Certain verification processes, including legacy verification processes on which we previously relied, may be less reliable than others. We screen against certain regulatory, terrorist, and sanctions watch lists, conduct certain criminal background checks for U.S. hosts, U.S. guests, and hosts in India, and conduct additional screening processes to flag and investigate suspicious activities. These processes are beneficial but not exhaustive and have limitations due to a variety of factors, including laws and regulations that prohibit or limit our ability to conduct effective background checks in some jurisdictions, the unavailability of information, and the inability of our systems to detect all suspicious activity. There can be no assurances that these measures will significantly reduce criminal or fraudulent activity on our platform. The criminal background checks for U.S. hosts, U.S. guests, and hosts in India, and other screening processes rely on, among other things, information provided by hosts and guests, our ability to validate that information, the accuracy, completeness, and availability of the underlying information relating to criminal records, the digitization of certain records, the evolving regulatory landscape in this area such as in the data privacy space, and on the effectiveness of third-party service providers that may fail to conduct such background checks adequately or disclose information that could be relevant to a determination of eligibility, and we do not run criminal background checks and other screening processes on third parties who may be present during a reservation made through our platform.
In addition, we have not in the past and may not in the future undertake to independently verify the safety, suitability, location, quality, compliance with Airbnb policies or standards, and legal compliance, such as fire code compliance or the presence of carbon monoxide detectors, of all our hosts’ listings or experiences. We have not in the past and may not in the future undertake to independently verify the location, safety, or suitability of experiences for individual guests, the suitability, qualifications, or credentials of experiences hosts, or the qualifications of individual experiences guests. In the limited circumstances where we have undertaken the verification or screening of certain aspects of host qualifications, listings or experiences, the scope of such processes may be limited and rely on, among other things, information provided by hosts and guests and the ability of our internal teams or third-party vendors to adequately conduct such verification or screening practices. In addition, we have not in the past taken and may not in the future take steps to re-verify or re-screen host qualifications, listings, or experiences following initial review. We have in the past relied, and may in the future, rely on hosts and guests to disclose information relating to their listings and experiences and such information may be inaccurate or incomplete. We have created policies and standards to respond to issues reported with listings, but certain listings may pose heightened safety risks to individual users because those issues have not been reported to us or because our customer support team has not taken the requisite action based on our policies. We rely, at least in part, on reports of issues from hosts and guests to investigate and enforce many of our policies and standards. In addition, our policies may not contemplate certain safety risks posed by listings or individual hosts or guests or may not sufficiently address those risks.