section_1: Item 1. Business
Overview
Airbnb is a community based on connection and belonging-a community that was born in 2007 when two hosts welcomed three guests to their San Francisco home, and has since grown to 4 million hosts who have welcomed over 800 million guest arrivals to approximately 100,000 cities in almost every country and region across the globe. Hosts on Airbnb are everyday people who share their worlds to provide guests with the feeling of connection and being at home. Airbnb has five stakeholders and is designed with all of them in mind. Along with employees and shareholders, we serve hosts, guests, and the communities in which they live. We intend to make long-term decisions considering all of our stakeholders because their collective success is key for our business to thrive.
Hosting is at the Center
Airbnb’s hosts are the foundation of our community and business. Stays are made possible by hosts. It is their individuality that makes Airbnb unique. From schoolteachers to artists, our hosts span more than 220 countries and regions and approximately 100,000 cities. As of December 31, 2020, we had 4 million hosts around the world, with 86% of hosts located outside of the United States.
Airbnb enables hosts to provide guests access to a vast world of unique homes and experiences that were previously inaccessible, or even undiscovered. The role of the host is about more than opening their door. A great host enables guests to find a deeper connection to the places they visit and the people who live there.
Our community of hosts started by sharing their spare bedrooms on Airbnb in a few large cities. Soon, hosts listed entire homes, cabins, treehouses, boats, castles, and luxury villas - practically any space that you could think of - in big cities, small towns, and rural communities in nearly every corner of the world. Our hosts generally fall into two categories: individual and professional. Individual hosts are those who activate their listings directly on Airbnb through our website or mobile apps. Individual hosts are the core of our host community. They come from all walks of life and list their spaces, including private rooms, primary homes, or vacation homes on Airbnb. Professional hosts are often those who run property management or hospitality businesses and generally use application programming interfaces to list their properties on our platform. These hosts expand the types of listings available to our guests.
Once there were millions of homes on Airbnb, we recognized that hosts could share not only their homes but also their interests and talents. From exploring graffiti art in New York City to finding hidden jazz clubs in London, Airbnb Experiences offer authentic activities in over 1,000 cities around the world.
We believe that we have just scratched the surface of the opportunities that hosting provides. There are many more ways people will want to connect with each other and the world around them, and so we will continue to design and enable new ways to host. No matter what form it takes, hosting will be at the center of Airbnb.
Host Endowment Fund
In October 2020, we established a Host Endowment Fund that is designed to allow hosts to share in the success of our business. The Host Endowment Fund was funded with 9.2 million shares of our Class H common stock and is intended to be a long-term investment in the future of the host community, to be shaped by hosts for hosts. The goal of the Host Endowment Fund is to support and benefit the host community through a variety of potential programs, initiatives, and grants. We want hosts to share in our success, not merely for a single moment in time, but for as long as Airbnb exists in the world.
In December 2020, we introduced 17 hosts from 14 countries and five continents as the first members of the Host Advisory Board for 2021. The Host Advisory Board is intended to give voices to hosts to help present ideas, inform Airbnb policies, and shape investments in the host community from the Host Endowment Fund.
Guests are Members of Our Community
Our hosts have welcomed hundreds of millions of guest arrivals through Airbnb. Guest arrivals represent an individual and all co-travelers included on a reservation for a stay for completed check-ins during a given period. Our guests are not transactions - they are engaged, contributing members of our community. From young people to retirees, our guests come from a range of cultures and places. They seek everything from budget stays to luxury accommodations in large cities to remote villages. What they often have in common is a curiosity about the world and open-mindedness to other people and cultures. While Airbnb is popular across people of all ages, we are particularly strong with younger travelers: as of December 31, 2020, the majority of our guests who have ever made a booking on Airbnb were between the ages of 18 and 34.
Once they become a part of Airbnb, guests actively participate in our community, many return regularly to our platform to book again, and recommend Airbnb to others who then join themselves. This demand encourages new hosts to join, which in turn attracts even more guests. It is a virtuous cycle - guests attract hosts, and hosts attract guests.
A Resilient Model
In early 2020, as COVID-19 disrupted travel across the world, Airbnb’s business declined significantly. But within two months, our business model started to rebound even with limited international travel, demonstrating its resilience. People wanted to get out of their homes and
yearned to travel, but they did not want to go far or to be in crowded hotel lobbies. Domestic travel quickly rebounded on Airbnb around the world as millions of guests took trips closer to home. Stays of longer than a few days started increasing as work-from-home became work-from-any-home on Airbnb. We believe that the lines between travel and living are blurring, and the global pandemic has accelerated the ability to live anywhere. Our platform has proven adaptable to serve these new ways of traveling.
And just as when Airbnb started during the Great Recession of 2008, we believe that people will continue to turn to hosting to earn extra income. In light of the evolving nature of COVID-19 and the uncertainty it has produced around the world, we do not believe it is possible to predict COVID-19’s cumulative and ultimate impact on our future business, results of operations, and financial condition. COVID-19 has materially adversely affected our recent operating and financial results and is continuing to materially adversely impact our long-term operating and financial results. However, we believe that as the world recovers from this pandemic, Airbnb will be a vital source of economic empowerment for millions of people.
For almost a year, many travelers have avoided traveling long distance because of COVID-19 concerns, quarantines, and travel restrictions. We expect the early part of 2021 will continue to be characterized by lower demand for long distance travel and overall depressed bookings compared to 2019. While the outlook for the entire year is unclear, we believe there may be opportunity for travel recovery as the rate of vaccinations increases and quarantine requirements and travel restrictions are lifted. According to a survey conducted by us in December 2020, 54% of the respondents said they have either already booked, are currently planning on traveling, or expect to travel in 2021. This includes 57% of 18- to 29-year-olds, and 60% of 30- to 49-year-olds. We are preparing for when travel rebounds as there will be a collective desire for two things: travel and human connection.
Our Long-Term Growth Strategy
Our strategy is to continue to invest in our key strengths:
•Unlock more hosting. In order to have enough selection for guests booking on our platform, we will continue to invest in growing the size and quality of our host community. We plan to attract more hosts globally and expand new use cases such as long-term stays. We will support emerging travel trends, such as local travel and remote working, and design new ways to host. Finally, we will continue to increase the support we provide our hosts to deliver high-quality stays and experiences for guests. We plan to design new tools and services and to offer comprehensive host education, partnering with hosts to teach the art and science of great hosting. We believe that we have just scratched the surface of the opportunities that hosting can provide.
•Grow and engage our guest community. We intend to attract new guests to Airbnb and convert more of them into brand advocates. We will continue to focus on engaging our existing guests to return to book and to use Airbnb with more frequency. With new behaviors evolving during the COVID-19 pandemic, we imagine the way that people approach work, living, and travel will fundamentally change. We believe there will be opportunities to create products based on these new behaviors and attract more guests to our platform. Finally, we plan to develop new ways for our guests to connect with each other and to contribute back to Airbnb.
•Invest in our brand. We intend to invest more deeply in our brand to educate new hosts and guests on the benefits of Airbnb and the uniqueness of our offering. We also intend to leverage our brand by creating a cohesive and integrated marketing strategy punctuated by product launches that introduce new features to our community and prospective hosts and guests.
•Expand our global network. We plan to expand our global network in the countries in which we already have a deep presence, as well as to expand into markets where our penetration is lower, such as India, China, Latin America, Southeast Asia, and tens of thousands of smaller markets and remote areas around the world. We will make Airbnb more accessible in more places by further localizing our product, and we will partner with communities to update laws and regulations for short-term rentals to allow more hosts to participate. As we attract more hosts, even more guests are likely to come to Airbnb, attracting even more hosts.
•Innovate on our platform. We will innovate both the online and in-person experiences for our hosts and our guests. Our innovation will be focused on improving our host and guest experience, making Airbnb more accessible and appealing for new hosts and guests and driving increased engagement and loyalty with our existing community.
•Design new products and offerings. We will design new opportunities for connection. As the world continues to change, we will continue to bring together new technologies with our design expertise to expand possibilities for our hosts and offer new
experiences for our guests. We will increase the capabilities of our website and mobile apps while bringing an innovative approach to designing host and guest interfaces in our products.
Our Strategy for Adapting to COVID-19