Prior to the outbreak, we had seen strong year-over-year growth in Nights and Experiences Booked in the first three weeks of 2020. We first saw the impact of COVID-19 in China in the last week of January, which when contained to China, had a minor impact on the entire business. The outbreak spread throughout Asia, and then through Europe, North America, and the rest of the world by the end of the first quarter of 2020. In order to protect our business from these near-term market disruptions and the prospect of a prolonged business impact, we raised $2.0 billion in the form of term loans in April 2020 and took action to dramatically reduce our operating expenses as described below. We believe these incremental funds and our rapid management of expenses, in addition to our existing cash position, has helped and will continue to help us to prudently manage our business through the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.
As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows remains uncertain. Our financial results for 2020 were materially adversely affected, and we expect that COVID-19 will continue to materially impact our bookings, revenue, and business operations in future periods. While we experienced an increase in GBV and revenue in the third quarter of 2020 compared to the second quarter of 2020 as domestic travel rebounded, both were down compared to the same periods in 2019.
During the fourth quarter of 2020, another wave of COVID-19 infections emerged. As a result, countries imposed strict lockdowns. Similar to the impact of the initial COVID-19 wave in March 2020, we saw a decrease in bookings in the most affected regions. As a result, while the fourth quarter GBV and revenue were greater than the second quarter, there were greater year-over-year declines in Nights and Experiences Booked and GBV in the fourth quarter of 2020 than in the third quarter of 2020. The extent and duration of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic over the longer term remain uncertain and dependent on future developments that cannot be accurately predicted at this time, such as the severity and transmission rate of COVID-19, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions taken, including mobility restrictions, the timing, availability, and effectiveness of vaccines, and the impact of these and other factors on travel behavior in general, and on our business in particular.
Multiple Resilient Categories Were Less Impacted and Showed Strong Recovery
We believe that the recovery in GBV that we experienced in the second half of 2020 was attributable to the renewed ability and willingness for guests to travel, the resilience of our hosts, and relative strength of our business model. From December 31, 2019 through December 31, 2020, active listings remained stable at approximately 5.6 million despite the decline in booking activity on our platform due to COVID-19. Against an otherwise highly negative travel backdrop, there are several areas of our business that have shown resilience, notably, domestic travel, short-distance travel, travel outside of our top 20 cities, and long-term stays. While we believe that travel will change as a result of
COVID-19, the adaptability of our business suggests that we are well-positioned to serve this dynamic market as it continues to evolve and recover.
COVID-19 Cost Reductions Helped Position Our Business for Improved Financial Performance
In response to the spread of COVID-19 and the resulting material decrease in GBV, we undertook an internal review of our cost structure, ultimately making changes to improve the strength of our business in the long term. Specifically, we significantly reduced our fixed and variable costs in 2020, which we believe will result in improved operating leverage as we emerge from COVID-19. In 2020, we rapidly made changes to manage our expenses in a period of material business interruption, which included suspending substantially all discretionary marketing program spend, reducing full-time employee headcount by approximately 25%, and suspending all facilities build-outs and significantly reducing capital expenditures.
These headcount reductions and other restructuring actions resulted in charges of $151.4 million for 2020. In conjunction with these actions, we have realigned our organizational priorities to further increase our focus on individual hosts and brand marketing, while pausing our investments in newer areas such as transportation and content and reducing performance marketing. We have done this to sharpen our focus on investments that directly strengthen our community and to increase the efficiency of our operations as the travel industry begins to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. We believe these changes should allow us to more effectively manage our business and improve our financial operating results.
Geographic Mix
Our operations are global, and certain trends in our business, such as Nights and Experiences Booked, GBV, revenue, GBV per Night and Experience Booked, and Nights per Booking vary by geography.
We measure Nights and Experiences Booked by region based on the location of the listing. As a result of COVID-19, the geographic mix of Nights and Experiences Booked, GBV, and revenue during 2020 reflected a shift toward North America, which saw the strongest recovery in the second half of the year. For 2020, Nights and Experiences Booked were 75.5 million, or 39% of the total, in North America compared to 67.7 million, or 35%, in EMEA, 27.6 million, or 14%, in Asia Pacific, and 22.4 million, or 12%, in Latin America. For 2020, GBV was $13.2 billion, or 55% of the total, in North America compared to $6.6 billion, or 28%, in EMEA, $2.4 billion, or 10%, in Asia Pacific, and $1.7 billion, or 7%, in Latin America. Similarly, for 2020, revenue was $1.8 billion, or 53% of the total, in North America compared to $1.0 billion, or 30%, in EMEA, $0.3 billion, or 10%, in Asia Pacific, and $0.3 billion, or 7%, in Latin America.
We saw an increase in GBV per Night and Experience Booked in 2020 compared to 2019, in part because our geographic mix shifted to these higher GBV per Night and Experience Booked regions. North America saw an increase in GBV per Night and Experience Booked as larger entire homes have been in greater demand. The average nights per booking also increased globally 2020, reflecting demand for longer stays. Specifically, GBV per Night and Experience Booked in 2020 was $174.43 for North America compared to $98.41 for EMEA, $85.83 for Asia Pacific, and $75.74 for Latin America, with a total global GBV per Night and Experience Booked of $123.69. Average nights per booking, excluding experiences, for 2020 were 4.4 nights for each of North America, EMEA, and Latin America and 2.8 nights for Asia Pacific, with a total average of 4.1 nights. We expect that our blended global average nights per booking will fluctuate based on our geographic mix and changes in traveler behaviors.
Seasonality
Our business is seasonal, reflecting typical travel behavior patterns over the course of the calendar year. In a typical year, the first, second,
and third quarters have higher Nights and Experiences Booked than the fourth quarter, as guests plan for travel during the peak travel season, which is in the third quarter for North America and EMEA. Our business metrics, including GBV and Adjusted EBITDA, can also be impacted by the timing of holidays and other events. We experience seasonality in our GBV that is generally consistent with the seasonality of Nights and Experiences Booked. Revenue and Adjusted EBITDA have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highest in the third quarter when we have the most check-ins, which is the point at which we recognize revenue. Seasonal trends in our GBV impact Free Cash Flow for any given quarter. Our costs are relatively fixed across quarters or vary in line with the volume of transactions, and we historically achieve our highest GBV in the first and second quarters of the year with comparatively lower check-ins. As a result, increases in unearned fees make our Free Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow as a percentage of revenue the highest in the first two quarters of the year. We typically see a slight decline in GBV and a peak in check-ins in the third quarter, which results in a decrease in unearned fees and lower sequential level of Free Cash Flow, and a greater decline in GBV in the fourth quarter, where Free Cash Flow is typically negative. As our business matures, other seasonal trends may develop, or these existing seasonal trends may become more extreme.
In 2020, we saw COVID-19 overwhelm the historical patterns of seasonality in our GBV, revenue, Adjusted EBITDA, and Free Cash Flow as a result of travel restrictions and changing travel preferences relating to the COVID-19 pandemic. We expect this impact on seasonality to continue as long as COVID-19 is impacting travel patterns globally.
Regulations Permitting or Limiting Our Offerings
Regulations that permit or limit our hosts’ ability to provide their listings impact our growth and penetration in certain geographies. In particular, among other regulations governing our short-term rentals, many large cities have placed night caps on short-term rentals of certain types of properties, limited short-term rentals to primary residences, or limited the length of a stay. No single city represented more than 1.1% of our revenue before adjustments for incentives and refunds during the year ended December 31, 2020 or 1.2% of our active listings as of December 31, 2020. An increase in short-term rental regulations could harm our business and negatively impact our financial performance. See the section titled “Risk Factors - Laws, regulations, and rules that affect the short-term rental and home sharing business may limit the ability or willingness of hosts to share their spaces over our platform and expose our hosts or us to significant penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.”
Components of Results of Operations
Revenue
Our revenue consists of service fees, net of incentives and refunds, charged to our customers. We consider both hosts and guests to be our customers. For stays, service fees, which are charged to customers as a percentage of the value of the booking, excluding taxes, vary based on factors specific to the booking, such as booking value, the duration of the booking, geography, and host type. For experiences, we only earn a host fee. Substantially all of our revenue comes from stays booked on our platform. Incentives include our referral programs and marketing promotions to encourage the use of our platform and attract new customers, while our refunds to customers are part of our customer support activities.
We experience a difference in timing between when a booking is made and when we recognize revenue, which occurs upon check-in. We record the service fees that we collect from customers prior to check-in on our balance sheet as unearned fees. Revenue is net of incentives and refunds provided to customers totaling $221.5 million, $274.5 million, and $384.2 million in 2018, 2019, and 2020, respectively, representing 6%, 6%, and 11% of revenue, respectively. The elevated level of incentives and refunds provided to customers during the year ended December 31, 2020 was related to payments made to support hosts impacted by increased guest cancellations and COVID-19 related guest cancellation coupons.
Cost of Revenue