Japan. In June 2018, a new national law, the Japanese Private Lodging Act (Act No. 65 of 2017), went into effect to legalize the short-term rental of primary and secondary residences in Japan for up to 180 nights per fiscal year. Under the law, hosts are required to register their rental with the local government. The Company is also required to register as an intermediary (bai-kai) with the Japanese Tourism Agency, and the law prohibits any registered intermediary from intermediating an illegal listing, including unregistered listings. The Company is required to remove listings that do not post a valid registration/license number. At the time of the law’s implementation, the Company took
Airbnb, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
down a significant number of listings and canceled associated reservations. The Company is continuing to take steps to fully comply with the law.
Paris, France. In December 2017, Paris further tightened the rules around short-term rental regulations. Hosts of entire primary and secondary homes offered for short-term rentals are required to obtain and display a registration number from the city in any advertising of the rental in order to demonstrate compliance. Following an unsuccessful proceeding in early 2018 seeking to compel the Company to enforce compliance in respect of 67 unregistered listings, the City of Paris launched a second proceeding against the Company in February 2019. The grounds were similar relating to 1,010 allegedly unregistered listings with a potential fine of 12.6 million Euros. A decision on the merits of this case is not expected before the third quarter of 2021. The Company announced in February 2021 that it is implementing registration requirements in certain large French cities, starting with Paris in the second quarter of 2021, which may resolve this pending proceeding.
In addition to the above matters, the Company has been and is currently party or subject to various other government inquiries, investigations and proceedings related to legal and regulatory requirements. For example, the Company is required to comply with governmental economic and trade sanctions laws administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) and other similar international agencies. In many cases, these inquiries, investigations and proceedings can be complex, time consuming, costly to investigate, and can require significant company and management attention. For certain matters, the Company has investigated and is implementing recommended changes to its managerial, operational and compliance practices. The Company is unable to predict the outcomes and implications on the Company’s business, industry practices or online commerce more generally. Furthermore, the outcome of these proceedings could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition, including possible fines and penalties and requiring changes to operational activities and procedures.
Intellectual Property
The Company has been and is currently subject to claims relating to intellectual property, including alleged patent infringement. Adverse results in such lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements, or orders preventing the Company from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, and may also cause the Company to change its business practices or require development of non-infringing products or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenue or otherwise harm its business. To date, the Company has not incurred any material costs as a result of such cases and has not recorded any material liabilities in its consolidated financial statements related to such matters.
Litigation and Other Legal Proceedings
The Company has been and is currently subject involved in litigation and legal proceedings and subject to legal claims in the ordinary course of business. In addition to the above, these include legal claims asserting, among other things, commercial, competition, tax, employment, pricing, discrimination, consumer, personal injury, and property rights.
Depending on the nature of the claim, the Company may be subject to monetary damage awards, fines, penalties, and/or injunctive orders. Furthermore, the outcome of these matters could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. The outcomes of legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable and subject to significant judgment to determine the likelihood and amount of loss related to such matters. While it is not possible to determine the outcomes, the Company believes based on its current knowledge that the resolution of all such pending matters will not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.
The Company establishes an accrued liability for loss contingencies related to legal matters when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. These accruals represent management’s best estimate of probable losses. Such currently accrued amounts are not material to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. However, management’s views and estimates related to these matters may change in the future, as new events and circumstances arise and the matters continue to develop. Until the final resolution of legal matters, there may be an exposure to losses in excess of the amounts accrued. With respect to outstanding legal matters, based on current knowledge, the amount or range of reasonably possible loss will not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. Legal fees are expensed as incurred.
Host Protections
The Company offers a Host Guarantee Program that provides protection of up to $1.0 million for direct physical loss or damage to a host’s covered property caused by guests during a confirmed booking and when the host and guest are unable to resolve the dispute. The Company retains risk and also maintains insurance from third parties on a per claim basis to protect the Company’s financial exposure under this program. In addition, through third-party insurers and self-insurance mechanisms, including a wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary created during the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company provides insurance coverage for third-party bodily injury or property damage liability claims that occur during a stay. This host protection insurance offering consists of a commercial general liability policy, with hosts and the Company as named insureds and landlords of hosts as additional insureds. The host protection insurance program provides primary coverage for up to $1.0 million per occurrence, subject to a $1.0 million cap per listing location, and includes various market standard conditions, limitations, and exclusions.
Indemnifications
The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with certain of its officers and directors. The indemnification agreements and the Company’s Amended and Restated Bylaws (the “Bylaws”) require the Company to indemnify these individuals to the fullest extent not prohibited by Delaware law. Subject to certain limitations, the indemnification agreements and Bylaws also require the Company to advance
Airbnb, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
expenses incurred by its directors and officers. No demands have been made upon the Company to provide indemnification under the indemnification agreements or the Bylaws, and thus, there are no claims that the Company is aware of that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.
In the ordinary course of business, the Company has included limited indemnification provisions under certain agreements with parties with whom the Company has commercial relations of varying scope and terms with respect to certain matters, including losses arising out of its breach of such agreements or out of intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential loss under these indemnification provisions due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular provision. To date, no significant costs have been incurred, either individually or collectively, in connection with the Company’s indemnification provisions.
Note 14. Income Taxes
The domestic and foreign components of income (loss) before income taxes were as follows (in thousands):
The components of the provision for (benefit from) income taxes were as follows (in thousands):
Airbnb, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
The following is a reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the Company’s effective tax rate:
For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2019, the difference in the Company’s effective tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory tax rate was primarily due to a change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings, the Company’s full valuation allowance on its U.S. deferred tax assets, and the Company’s uncertain tax positions.
For the year ended December 31, 2020, the difference in the Company’s effective tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory tax rate was primarily due to the Company’s full valuation allowance on its U.S. deferred tax assets and the Company’s tax impact of restructuring and the IPO.
The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands):
In December 2019, the Company transferred certain intangible assets among its wholly-owned subsidiaries to align its structure to its evolving operations. The transfer resulted in a step-up in the tax basis of intellectual property rights and a correlated increase in foreign deferred tax assets of $789.6 million. Based on available objective evidence, management believed it was not more-likely-than-not that these additional foreign deferred tax assets would be realizable as of December 31, 2019 and, therefore, these deferred tax assets were offset by a full valuation allowance.
Airbnb, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
In the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company completed a restructuring plan to repatriate its intellectual property to the United States to align with its evolving operations in a post-COVID-19 environment. The Company eliminated the $789.6 million foreign deferred tax asset and valuation allowance recorded in the fourth quarter of 2019, and recorded a U.S. deferred tax asset of $140.7 million from a step-up in the tax basis of certain repatriated intellectual property. Based on available objective evidence, management believes it is not more-likely-than-not that these additional U.S. deferred tax assets will be realizable as of December 31, 2020 and, therefore, these deferred tax assets are offset by a full valuation allowance.
In determining the need for a valuation allowance, the Company weighs both positive and negative evidence in the various jurisdictions in which it operates to determine whether it is more likely than not that its deferred tax assets are recoverable. In assessing the ultimate realizability of its deferred tax assets, the Company considers all available evidence, including cumulative historic and forecasted losses, and as such, does not believe it is more likely than not that its U.S. deferred tax assets will be realized. Accordingly, a full valuation allowance has been established in the United States, and no deferred tax assets and related tax benefit have been recognized in the financial statements. As a result of the restructuring completed in the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company released the valuation allowance that was previously recorded in Ireland due to expected future income. There is no valuation allowance in certain foreign jurisdictions that have cumulative income and expected future income.
For the year ended December 31, 2019, the net increase in the Company’s valuation allowance compared to the prior year was primarily due to the step-up in tax basis of intellectual property rights created upon an intra-entity transfer, and an increase in tax credits generated, accruals, reserves, and stock-based compensation. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the net increase in the Company’s valuation allowance compared to the prior year was primarily due to the 2020 net operating loss, an increase in tax credits generated, accruals and reserves, and stock-based compensation.
The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (“CARES Act”) was enacted by the United States on March 27, 2020. The CARES Act contains certain tax provisions, including provisions that retroactively and/or temporarily suspend or relax in certain respects the application of certain provisions in the Act, such as the limitations on the deduction of net operating losses and interest. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded a benefit of $95.6 million related to the carryback of its 2020 net operating loss.