We process a significant volume and dollar value of transactions on a daily basis. When hosts do not fulfill their obligations to guests, there are fictitious listings or fraudulent bookings on our platform, or there are host account takeovers, we have incurred and will continue to incur losses from claims by hosts and guests, and these losses may be substantial. Such instances have and can lead to the reversal of payments received by us for such bookings, referred to as a “chargeback.” For the year ended December 31, 2020, total chargeback expense was $124.7 million. Our ability to detect and combat fraudulent schemes, which have become increasingly common and sophisticated, could be adversely impacted by the adoption of new payment methods, the emergence and innovation of new technology platforms, including mobile and other devices, and our growth in certain regions, including in regions with a history of elevated fraudulent activity. We expect that technically-knowledgeable criminals will continue to attempt to circumvent our anti-fraud systems. In addition, the payment card networks have rules around acceptable chargeback ratios. If we are unable to effectively combat fictitious listings and fraudulent bookings on our platform, combat the use of fraudulent or stolen credit cards, or otherwise maintain or lower our current levels of charge-backs, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees or be unable to continue to accept card payments because payment card networks have revoked our access to their networks, any of which would materially adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
Our payments platform is susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses, including money laundering, transactions in violation of economic and trade sanctions, corruption and bribery, terrorist financing, fraudulent listings, host account takeovers, or the facilitation of other illegal activity. Use of our payments platform for illegal or improper uses has subjected us, and may subject us in the future, to claims, lawsuits, and government and regulatory investigations, inquiries, or requests, which could result in liability and reputational harm for us. We have taken measures to detect and reduce fraud and illegal activities, but these measures need to be continually improved and may add friction to our booking process. These measures may also not be effective against fraud and illegal activities, particularly new and continually evolving forms of circumvention. If these measures do not succeed in reducing fraud, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected.
Our payments platform is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight. Our failure to comply with extensive, complex, overlapping, and frequently changing laws, rules, regulations, policies, legal interpretations, and regulatory guidance could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
Our payments platform is subject to various laws, rules, regulations, policies, legal interpretations, and regulatory guidance, including those governing: cross-border and domestic money transmission and funds transfers; stored value and prepaid access; foreign exchange; privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity; banking secrecy; payment services (including payment processing and settlement services); consumer protection; economic and trade sanctions; anti-corruption and anti-bribery; and anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing. As we expand and localize our international activities, we have and will become increasingly subject to the laws of additional countries or geographies. In addition, because we facilitate bookings on our platform worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our customers are required to comply with their laws. Laws regulating our payments platform outside of the United States often impose different, more specific, or even conflicting obligations on us, as well as broader liability. For example, certain transactions that may be permissible in a local jurisdiction may be prohibited by regulations of the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) or U.S. anti-money laundering or counter-terrorist financing regulations.
We have assessed, and will continue to assess, the adequacy of our policies, procedures, and internal controls for ensuring compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations, policies, legal interpretations, and regulatory guidance, including the ones described below. Through these assessments, we have identified, and may in the future identify, certain gaps or weaknesses in our existing compliance programs, including in our policies, procedures, or internal controls. As a result of findings from these assessments, we have, are, and may in the future take certain actions, such as implementing enhancements to our compliance measures and amending, updating, or revising our policies, procedures, and internal controls, and other operational frameworks, designed to monitor for and ensure compliance with existing and new laws, rules, regulations, policies, legal interpretations, and regulatory guidance. Implementing appropriate measures to fully remediate or address findings from assessments of our compliance programs may require us to incur significant costs.
Any failure or perceived failure to comply with existing or new laws and regulations, including the ones described in this risk factor, or orders of any governmental authority, including changes to or expansion of their interpretations, may subject us to significant fines, penalties, criminal and civil lawsuits, forfeiture of significant assets, enforcement actions in one or more jurisdictions, result in additional compliance and licensure requirements, and increased regulatory scrutiny of our business. In addition, we may be forced to restrict or change our operations or business practices, make product changes, or delay planned product launches or improvements. Any of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our brand, reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. The complexity of global regulatory and enforcement regimes, coupled with the global scope of our operations and the evolving global regulatory environment, could result in a single event giving rise to a large number of overlapping investigations and legal and regulatory proceedings by multiple government authorities in different jurisdictions, and have an adverse impact on, or result in the termination of, our relationships with financial institutions and other service providers on whom we rely for payment processing services. Our ability to track and verify transactions to comply with
these regulations, including the ones described in this risk factor, require a high level of internal controls. As our business continues to grow and regulations change, we must continue to strengthen our associated internal controls. Any failure to maintain the necessary controls could result in reputational harm and result in significant penalties and fines from regulators.
Payments Regulation
In the United States, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Airbnb Payments, Inc. (“Airbnb Payments”), is registered as a “Money Services Business” with the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (“FinCEN”), and subject to regulatory oversight and enforcement by FinCEN under the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “BSA”). Airbnb Payments has also obtained licenses to operate as a money transmitter (or its equivalent) in various states and territories where such licenses are required. As a licensed money transmitter, Airbnb Payments is subject to obligations and restrictions with respect to the handling and investment of customer funds, record keeping and reporting requirements, bonding requirements, and inspection by state regulatory agencies. In U.S. states and territories in which Airbnb Payments has not obtained a license to operate as a money transmitter (or its equivalent), we may be required to apply for licenses or regulatory approvals, including due to changes in applicable laws and regulations or their interpretations.
We issue gift cards in the United States for use on our platform and are subject to consumer protection and disclosure regulations relating to those services. If we seek to expand our gift cards or other stored value card products and services, or as a result of regulatory changes, we may be subject to additional regulation and may be required to obtain additional licenses and registrations, which we may not be able to obtain.
We principally provide our payment services to hosts and guests in the EEA through Airbnb Payments Luxembourg SA (“APLux”), our wholly-owned subsidiary that is licensed and subject to regulation as a payments institution in Luxembourg. EEA laws and regulations are typically subject to different and potentially inconsistent interpretations by the countries that are members of the EEA, which can make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. For example, countries that are EEA members may each have different and potentially inconsistent domestic regulations implementing European Directives, including the European Union Payment Services Directive, the Revised Payment Services Directive (“PSD2”), the E-Money Directive, and the Fourth and Fifth Anti-Money Laundering Directives. Further, we provide our payments services to hosts and guests in the United Kingdom and other geographies outside the United States and the EEA through Airbnb Payments UK Limited (“APUK”), our wholly-owned subsidiary that is licensed and subject to regulation as an electronic money institution (“EMI”) in the United Kingdom, as well as through our other wholly-owned payments entities.
PSD2 imposes new standards for payment security and strong customer authentication that may make it more difficult and time consuming to carry out a payment transaction. These authentication requirements were originally scheduled to commence in September 2019, but European national supervisory authorities delayed enforcement until January 1, 2021, and they will go into force in the United Kingdom on September 14, 2021. In many cases, strong customer authentication requires our European guests to engage in additional steps to authenticate payment transactions and European hosts to perform authentication upon access to their payout account or modification of their payout account information. These additional authentication requirements may make our platform experience for hosts and guests in the European Economic Area substantially less convenient, and such loss of convenience could meaningfully reduce the frequency with which our customers use our platform or could cause some hosts and guests to stop using our platform entirely, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
In many countries or geographies, it is and may not be clear whether we are required to be licensed as a payment services provider, electronic money institution, financial institution, or otherwise. In such instances, we partner with local banks and licensed payment processors to process payments and conduct foreign exchange transactions in local currency. Local regulators may slow or halt payments to hosts conducted through local banks and licensed payment processors or otherwise prohibit or impede us from doing business in a jurisdiction. We may be required to apply for various additional licenses, certifications, and regulatory approvals, including due to changes in applicable laws and regulations or their interpretations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to (or decide to) obtain any such licenses, certifications, and approvals.
There are substantial costs and potential changes to our offerings involved in obtaining, maintaining, and renewing licenses, certifications, and approvals globally. Our payments entities are subject to inspections, examinations, supervision, and regulation by each relevant regulating authority, including, within the United States, by each state in which Airbnb Payments is licensed. We could be subject to significant fines or other enforcement actions if we are found to violate disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, economic and trade sanctions, capitalization, fund management, corporate governance and internal controls, risk management, privacy, data protection and data localization, information security, banking secrecy, taxation, sanctions, or other laws and requirements, including those imposed on United Kingdom EMIs and Luxembourg payments institutions. These factors could involve considerable delay to the development or provision of our offerings or services, require significant and costly operational changes, impose restrictions, limitations, or additional requirements on our business, or prevent us from providing our offerings or services in a given geography.
Consumer Protection