We may have exposure to greater than anticipated income tax liabilities.
Our income tax obligations are based in part on our corporate operating structure and intercompany arrangements, including the manner in which we operate our business, develop, value, manage, protect, and use our intellectual property, and determine the value of our intercompany transactions. The tax laws applicable to our business, including those of the United States and other jurisdictions, are subject to interpretation and certain jurisdictions are aggressively interpreting their laws in new ways in an effort to raise additional tax revenue from companies such as Airbnb. The taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, which could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
We are subject to regular review and audit by U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign tax authorities. For example, our 2008 to 2020 tax years remain subject to examination in the United States and California due to tax attributes and statutes of limitations, and our 2016 to 2020 tax years remain subject to examination in Ireland. We are currently under examination for income taxes by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the years 2013, 2016, 2017, and 2018. We are continuing to respond to inquiries related to these examinations. In December 2020, we received a Notice of Proposed Adjustment from the IRS for the 2013 tax year relating to the valuation of our international intellectual property which was sold to a subsidiary in 2013. The notice proposes an increase to our U.S. taxable income that could result in additional income tax expense and cash tax liability of $1.35 billion, plus penalties and interest, which exceeds our current reserve recorded in our consolidated financial statements by more than $1.0 billion. We disagree with the proposed adjustment and intend to vigorously contest it. If we are not able to resolve the proposed adjustment at the IRS examination-level, we plan to pursue all available administrative and, if necessary, judicial remedies which may include: entering into administrative settlement discussions with the IRS Independent Office of Appeals (“IRS Appeals”) in 2021, and if necessary petitioning the U.S. Tax Court (“Tax Court”) for redetermination if an acceptable outcome cannot be reached with IRS Appeals, and finally, and if necessary, appealing the Tax Court’s decision to the appropriate appellate court. If the IRS prevails in the assessment of additional tax due based on its position and such tax and related interest and penalties, if any, exceeds our current reserves, such outcome could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations, and any assessment of additional tax could require a significant cash payment and have a material adverse impact on our cash flow.
In the fourth quarter of 2020, we completed a restructuring plan to repatriate our intellectual property to the United States to align with our evolving operations in a post COVID-19 environment. The restructuring plan involved numerous intercompany arrangements and tax jurisdictions and required the valuation of multiple intercompany transactions which could be challenged by respective tax authorities, including as a result of reduced valuations caused by forecast adjustments due to the impact of COVID-19, and any adverse outcome of any review or audit could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are currently under a multilateral control (“MLC”) audit where a number of individual European state audits are combined. The MLC audit is focused on VAT characterization and compliance, access to host data, and transfer pricing. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and any adverse outcome of any review or audit could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
The determination of our worldwide provision for (benefit from) income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment by management, and there are many transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our provision for (benefit from) income taxes is also determined by the manner in which we operate our business, and any changes to such operations or laws applicable to such operations may affect our effective tax rate. Changes in accounting for intercompany transactions may also affect our effective tax rate. For example, with the adoption of ASU No. 2016-16, effective January 1, 2018, the income tax effects of an intercompany transfer are recognized in the period in which the transfer occurs, rather than amortized over time, which may increase the impact of such transfers on our effective tax rate in a particular period. Although we believe that our provision for (benefit from) income taxes is reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and could materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. In addition, our future tax expense could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles. For example, we have previously incurred losses in the United States and certain international subsidiaries that resulted in an effective tax rate that is significantly higher than the statutory tax rate in the United States and this could continue to happen in the future. We may also be subject to additional tax liability relating to indirect or other non-income taxes, as described in our risk factor titled “- Uncertainty in the application of taxes to our hosts, guests, or platform could increase our tax liabilities and may discourage hosts and guests from conducting business on our platform.” Our tax positions or tax returns are subject to change, and therefore we cannot accurately predict whether we may incur material additional tax liabilities in the future, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
In addition, in connection with any planned or future acquisitions, we may acquire businesses that have differing licenses and other arrangements that may be challenged by tax authorities for not being at arm’s-length or that are potentially less tax efficient than our licenses and arrangements. Any subsequent integration or continued operation of such acquired businesses may result in an increased effective tax rate in certain jurisdictions or potential indirect tax costs, which could result in us incurring additional tax liabilities or having to establish a reserve in our consolidated financial statements, and materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
The tax regimes we are subject to or operate under, including income and non-income (including indirect) taxes, are unsettled and may be subject to significant change. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings, or changes in interpretations of existing laws, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For example, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals issued a decision in Altera Corp. v.
Commissioner in June of 2019 regarding the treatment of stock-based compensation expense in a cost sharing arrangement, which had a material effect on our tax obligations and effective tax rate for the quarter in which the decision was issued. In addition, on December 22, 2017, the legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”) was enacted, which contains significant changes to U.S. tax law, including a reduction in the corporate tax rate and a transition to a more territorial system of taxation. The primary impact of this legislation on our provision for (benefit from) income taxes was a reduction of the future tax benefits of our deferred tax assets as a result of the reduction in the corporate tax rate. Since we have recorded a full valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets, these changes did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. However, the impact of the Tax Act will likely be subject to ongoing technical guidance and accounting interpretation, the issuance of which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate in the period issued. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”) was enacted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The CARES Act contains certain tax provisions, including provisions that retroactively and/or temporarily suspend or relax in certain respects the application of certain provisions in the Tax Act, such as the limitations on the deduction of net operating losses and interest. In addition, many countries in Europe, as well as a number of other countries and states, have recently proposed or recommended changes to existing tax laws or have enacted new laws that could significantly increase our tax obligations in many countries and states where we do business or require us to change the manner in which we operate our business. For example, in Italy, a 2017 law requires short-term rental platforms that process payments to collect and remit host income tax and tourist tax, amongst other obligations. Airbnb has challenged this law before the Italian courts but if we are unsuccessful this will lead to further compliance and potentially significant prior and future tax obligations.
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has been working on a Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project, and issued a report in 2015 and an interim report in 2018, and is expected to continue to issue guidelines and proposals that may change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in many of the countries in which we do business. Similarly, the European Commission and several countries have issued proposals that would change various aspects of the current tax framework under which we are taxed. These proposals include changes to the existing framework to calculate income tax, as well as proposals to change or impose new types of non-income (including indirect) taxes, including taxes based on a percentage of revenue. For example, France, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, among others, have each proposed or enacted taxes applicable to digital services, which includes business activities on digital platforms and would likely apply to our business.
The European Commission has conducted investigations in multiple countries focusing on whether local country tax rulings or tax law provide preferential tax treatment that violates European Union state aid rules and concluded that certain countries, including Ireland, have provided illegal state aid in certain cases. These investigations may result in changes to the tax treatment of our foreign operations. Due to the large and increasing scale of our international business activities, many of these types of changes to the taxation of our activities described above and in our risk factor titled “- Uncertainty in the application of taxes to our hosts, guests, or platform could increase our tax liabilities and may discourage hosts and guests from conducting business on our platform” could increase our worldwide effective tax rate, increase the amount of non-income (including indirect) taxes imposed on our business, and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Such changes may also apply retroactively to our historical operations and result in taxes greater than the amounts estimated and recorded in our financial statements.
Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.