Also in April 2020, the Company entered into a $1.0 billion Second Lien Credit and Guaranty Agreement (the “Second Lien Credit Agreement,” and the loans thereunder, the “Second Lien Loan”), resulting in net proceeds of $967.5 million, net of debt discount and debt issuance costs of $32.5 million. The loan is due and payable in July 2025. The underlying loan can be repaid in whole or in part prior to July 2025, subject to applicable prepayment premiums, make-whole premiums, and the priority of lenders under the First Lien Credit Agreement over any proceeds the Company receives from the sale of collateral. Additionally, subject to the Company’s obligation to make mandatory prepayments under the First Lien Credit Agreement, the Second Lien Credit Agreement requires the Company to prepay in cash all or a portion of outstanding Second Lien Loans, plus any applicable prepayment premiums and make-whole premiums, in the event of non-ordinary course asset sales or other dispositions of property, or incurrence or issuance of any indebtedness, subject to certain exceptions. The Company can select the per annum interest rate equal to (i) 10% plus LIBOR, subject to a floor of 1%, or (ii) 9% plus the greatest of (a) the prime rate, (b) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.5%, and (c) LIBOR for a one-month period plus 1%, in each case subject to a floor of 3%. Interest is payable monthly or quarterly in arrears, at the Company’s option depending on the selected per annum interest rate and interest period. In addition, at the Company’s election, payment-in-kind interest up to 5.5% per annum may be paid by increasing the principal amount of the Second Lien Loan by such amount.
The debt discount and debt issuance costs are amortized to interest expense using the effective interest rate method. For the year ended December 31, 2020, interest expense of $157.1 million was recorded for the First Lien and Second Lien Loans relating to the contractual interest and amortization of the debt discount and debt issuance costs.
As of December 31, 2020, the estimated fair value of the First Lien Loan and Second Lien Loan were $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, and were determined based on quoted prices in markets that are not active, or Level 2 inputs.
The First Lien Loan and the Second Lien Loan are unconditionally guaranteed by certain of the Company’s domestic subsidiaries and are both secured by substantially all the assets of the Company and of these subsidiary guarantors.
The First Lien Loan and Second Lien Loan contain customary affirmative and negative covenants, subject to certain exceptions, including restrictions on the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things, incur debt and liens, undergo fundamental changes including mergers and consolidations, sell or transfer assets, pay dividends or other distributions, make acquisitions, investments, loans or advances, or payments and prepayments of junior or unsecured indebtedness. The First Lien Loan and Second Lien Loan also contain customary events of default, including a change in control.
Airbnb, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
The future principal payments for the Company’s long-term debt as of December 31, 2020 are summarized as follows (in thousands):
In connection with the Second Lien Loan, the Company issued warrants to purchase 7,934,794 shares of Class A common stock with an initial exercise price of $28.355 per share, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, to the Second Lien Loan lenders. The warrants expire on April 17, 2030 and the exercise price can be settled in cash or in net shares at the holder’s option. The fair value of the warrants at issuance was $116.6 million and was recorded as a liability in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet with a corresponding debt discount recorded against the Second Lien Loan. The warrant liability is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date as long as the warrants remain outstanding and unexercised with changes in fair value recorded in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of operations. As of December 31, 2020, the fair value of the warrant totaled $985.2 million, or an increase in liability of $868.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2020.
2016 Credit Facility
In April 2016, the Company entered into a five-year unsecured revolving Credit and Guarantee Agreement (the “2016 Credit Facility”) with a group of lenders led by Bank of America, N.A. The 2016 Credit Facility provides an initial borrowing commitment by the lenders of $1.0 billion, which can be increased by a maximum of $250.0 million. The 2016 Credit Facility also provides a $100.0 million sub-limit for the issuance of letters of credit. The 2016 Credit Facility includes a commitment fee of 0.125% per annum on any undrawn amounts.
Outstanding borrowings bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of: (i) the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus 0.50%; (ii) the rate of interest in effect for such day by Bank of America as its “prime rate”; or (iii) the Eurocurrency Rate for one month plus 1.00%. Borrowing terms vary based on the type of borrowing with all outstanding balances being due on April 26, 2021, the termination date of the 2016 Credit Facility. Outstanding balances may be repaid prior to maturity without penalty. The 2016 Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including restrictions on the Company’s and certain of its subsidiaries’ ability to incur debt and liens, undergo fundamental changes, and pay dividends or other distributions, as well as certain financial covenants. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants as of December 31, 2019.
As of December 31, 2019, there were no borrowings outstanding on the 2016 Credit Facility and outstanding letters of credit totaled $53.0 million. On April 17, 2020, the Company terminated the 2016 Credit Facility. Certain letters of credit under the 2016 Credit Facility were transferred to new issuers upon the termination of the 2016 Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2020, letters of credit formerly under the 2016 Credit Facility totaled $32.9 million and were secured by cash collateral of $33.8 million, which was recorded as restricted cash on the consolidated balance sheet.
2020 Credit Facility
On November 19, 2020, the Company entered into a five-year secured revolving Credit and Guarantee Agreement, which provides for an initial borrowing commitment by a group of lenders led by Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. of $500.0 million (“2020 Credit Facility”). The 2020 Credit Facility provides a $200.0 million sub-limit for the issuance of letters of credit. The 2020 Credit Facility has a commitment fee of 0.15% per annum on any undrawn amounts, payable quarterly in arrears. Interest on borrowings is equal to (i) in the case of LIBOR borrowings, 1.5% plus LIBOR, subject to a floor of 0%, or (ii) in the case of base rate borrowings, 0.5% plus the greatest of (a) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.5%, (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day by Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. as its “prime rate”, and (c) LIBOR for a one-month period plus 1.0%, in each case subject to a floor of 1.0%. Outstanding balances may be repaid prior to maturity without penalty. The 2020 Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including restrictions on the Company’s and certain of its subsidiaries’ ability to incur debt and liens, undergo fundamental changes, and pay dividends or other distributions, as well as certain financial covenants. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants as of December 31, 2020. No amounts have been drawn on the 2020 Credit Facility as of December 31, 2020 and outstanding letters of credit totaled $21.4 million.
Note 12. Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock and Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit)
Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock
Upon closing of the IPO, all shares of the Company’s outstanding redeemable convertible preferred stock automatically converted into 240.9 million shares of Class B common stock, including 1,286,694 shares of Class B common stock issuable pursuant to the anti-dilution adjustment provisions relating to the Company’s Series C redeemable convertible preferred stock.
Airbnb, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
The following table presents the Company’s authorized and outstanding redeemable convertible preferred stock as of December 31, 2019 (in thousands, except per share amounts):
The following summarizes the rights, preferences, and privileges of the Company’s redeemable convertible preferred stock preceding the Company’s IPO:
Dividends
Holders of redeemable convertible preferred stock were entitled to receive annual, noncumulative dividends of at least 8% of the original issue price per share, if, when and as declared by the Company’s board of directors prior to payment of any dividends to common stockholders (other than dividends on shares of common stock payable in common stock). After such dividends, any additional dividends were payable on a pro rata basis to the holders of common stock and redeemable convertible preferred stock (assuming the conversion of redeemable convertible preferred stock into common stock at the then current applicable conversion price).
Liquidation Preference
Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company or Deemed Liquidation Event as defined in the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation that was in effect prior to the IPO (collectively, a “Liquidation Event”), holders of redeemable convertible preferred stock were entitled to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders before any payment to the holders of common stock, an amount per share equal to the greater of (i) the applicable original issue price per share plus any declared but unpaid dividends or (ii) an amount per share as would have been payable had all the shares of redeemable convertible preferred stock been converted into common stock, at the then-applicable conversion rate, immediately prior to the Liquidation Event (“Liquidation Amount”). In the event the Company had insufficient assets to pay the holders of shares of redeemable convertible preferred stock the full liquidation preference, the holders of redeemable convertible preferred stock would be paid ratably in proportion to the full amounts to which they would otherwise be entitled. Any assets of the Company remaining after payment of the above liquidation preference to the holders of redeemable convertible preferred stock would be distributed solely to holders of common stock, pro rata, based on the number of shares held by each holder. The Company classified its redeemable convertible preferred stock as mezzanine equity, or outside of stockholders’ equity (deficit), because the shares contained liquidation features that were not solely within the Company’s control.
Conversion Rights
Each share of redeemable convertible preferred stock was initially convertible at the option of the holder into one share of Class B common stock.
All shares of the Company’s redeemable convertible preferred stock automatically converted into shares of Class B common stock, at the then-applicable conversion rate, upon the closing of a firm-commitment underwritten public offering pursuant to an effective registration statement resulting in at least $75.0 million of gross proceeds to the Company, or the vote or written consent of holders of a majority of the then outstanding shares of redeemable convertible preferred stock as a single class on an as-converted basis; provided that such vote or consent may have required the approval of certain majority of holders of certain series of redeemable convertible preferred stock.
The Series C redeemable convertible preferred stockholders were entitled to an anti-dilution feature, whereby the conversion price of the Series C redeemable convertible preferred stock was adjusted based on an adjustment formula in the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation that was in effect prior to the IPO. As of December 31, 2019, 1,286,694 of additional shares of Class B common stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of the Series C redeemable convertible preferred stock based on the adjustments to the conversion price. Immediately prior to the completion of the Company’s IPO in December 2020, these shares were converted into the Company’s Class B common stock.
Voting Rights