In 2020, we had 193.2 million Nights and Experiences Booked, a 41% decrease from 326.9 million Nights and Experiences Booked in 2019, which in turn was a 31% increase from 250.3 million Nights and Experiences Booked in 2018. Nights and Experiences Booked grows as we attract new hosts and guests to our platform and as repeat guests increase their activity on our platform. Our Nights and Experiences Booked declined from prior levels as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The decline in 2020 was most severe in the second quarter, with Nights and Experiences Booked declining 67% from the prior year period, and our business improved from those levels in the third and fourth quarters with declines of 28% and 39%, respectively, from the prior year period. This improvement was driven by stronger results in North America and Europe, in particular with resilience in domestic and short-distance travel, with more people gravitating toward Airbnb stays within driving distance of their homes.
Gross Booking Value
GBV represents the dollar value of bookings on our platform in a period and is inclusive of host earnings, service fees, cleaning fees, and taxes, net of cancellations and alterations that occurred during that period. The timing of recording GBV and any related cancellations is similar to that described in the subsection titled “- Key Business Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures - Nights and Experiences Booked” above. Revenue from the booking is recognized upon check-in; accordingly, GBV is a leading indicator of revenue. The entire amount of a booking is reflected in GBV during the quarter in which booking occurs, whether the guest pays the entire amount of the booking upfront or elects to use our Pay Less Upfront program.
Growth in GBV reflects our ability to attract and retain hosts and guests and reflects growth in Nights and Experiences Booked. In 2020, our GBV was $23.9 billion, a 37% decrease from $38.0 billion in 2019, which in turn was a 29% increase from $29.4 billion in 2018. The decrease in our GBV in 2020 was due to the reduction in Nights and Experiences Booked due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as described above. On a constant currency basis, the reduction in GBV was 37%. The decline was most severe in the second quarter, with GBV declining 67% from the prior year. We experienced an increase in GBV in the third and fourth quarters of 2020 as domestic travel rebounded on our platform from
the second quarter levels, but below third and fourth quarter 2019 levels by 17% and 31%, respectively. In the third and fourth quarters of 2020, GBV declined less than Nights and Experiences Booked as a result of increased GBV per Night and Experience Booked driven by a shift towards North America compared to other regions and entire home bookings.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In addition to our results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance. We use the following non-GAAP financial information, collectively, to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes.We believe that non-GAAP financial information, when taken collectively, may be helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance, and assists in comparisons with other companies, some of which use similar non-GAAP financial information to supplement their GAAP results. The non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from similarly titled non-GAAP measures used by other companies. A reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP is provided below. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The following table summarizes our non-GAAP financial measures, along with the most directly comparable GAAP measure, for each period presented below.
Adjusted EBITDA
We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income or loss adjusted for (i) provision for (benefit from) income taxes; (ii) interest income, interest expense, and other income (expense), net; (iii) depreciation and amortization; (iv) stock-based compensation expense and stock-settlement obligations related to the IPO; (v) acquisition-related impacts consisting of gains (losses) recognized on changes in the fair value of contingent consideration arrangements; (vi) net changes to the reserves for lodging taxes for which management believes it is probable that we may be held jointly liable with hosts for collecting and remitting such taxes; and (vii) restructuring charges.
The above items are excluded from our Adjusted EBITDA measure because these items are non-cash in nature, or because the amount and timing of these items is unpredictable, not driven by core results of operations and renders comparisons with prior periods and competitors less meaningful. We believe Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our results of operations, as well as provides a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business performance. Moreover, we have included Adjusted EBITDA in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because it is a key measurement used by our management internally to make operating decisions, including those related to operating expenses, evaluating performance, and performing strategic planning and annual budgeting.
Adjusted EBITDA also excludes certain items related to transactional tax matters, for which management believes it is probable that we may be held jointly liable with hosts in certain jurisdictions, and we urge investors to review the detailed disclosure regarding these matters included in the subsection titled “-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates-Lodging Tax Obligations,” as well as the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as a financial measure, should be considered as supplemental in nature, and is not meant as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. These limitations include the following:
•Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest income (expense) and other income (expense), net, which include unrealized and realized gains and losses on foreign currency exchange, investments, and financial instruments, including the warrants issued in connection with a term loan agreement entered into in April 2020;
•Adjusted EBITDA excludes certain recurring, non-cash charges, such as depreciation of property and equipment and amortization of intangible assets, and although these are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect all cash requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements;
•Adjusted EBITDA excludes stock-based compensation expense, which has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense in our business and an important part of our compensation strategy as well as stock-settlement obligations, which represent employer and related taxes related to the IPO;
•Adjusted EBITDA excludes acquisition-related impacts consisting of gains (losses) recognized on changes in the fair value of contingent consideration arrangements. The contingent consideration, which was in the form of equity, was valued as of the
acquisition date and is mark-to-market at each reporting period based on factors including our stock price. The changes in fair value of contingent consideration was insignificant prior to the fourth quarter of 2020;
•Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect net changes to reserves for lodging taxes for which management believes it is probable that we may be held jointly liable with hosts for collecting and remitting such taxes; and
•Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect restructuring charges, which include severance and other employee costs, lease impairments, and contract amendments and terminations.
Because of these limitations, you should consider Adjusted EBITDA alongside other financial performance measures, including net loss and our other GAAP results.
In 2020, Adjusted EBITDA was $(250.7) million, compared to Adjusted EBITDA in 2019 of $(253.3) million, primarily due to the reduction in Nights and Experiences Booked and GBV due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as described above, partially offset by a reduction in overall spend. In 2019, Adjusted EBITDA was $(253.3) million, compared to Adjusted EBITDA in 2018 of $170.6 million, primarily due to significant investments in growth initiatives and investments in our technical infrastructure in 2019.
Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation
The following is a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to the most comparable GAAP measure, net loss:
(1)Excludes stock-based compensation related to restructuring, which is included in restructuring charges in the table above.
Free Cash Flow
We define Free Cash Flow as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities less purchases of property and equipment. We believe that Free Cash Flow is a meaningful indicator of liquidity that provides information to our management and investors about the amount of cash generated from operations, after purchases of property and equipment, that can be used for investment in our business and for acquisitions as well as to strengthen our balance sheet. Our Free Cash Flow is impacted by the timing of GBV because we collect our service fees at the time of booking, which is generally before a stay or experience occurs. Funds held on behalf of our hosts and guests and amounts payable to our hosts and guests do not impact Free Cash Flow, except interest earned on these funds. Free Cash Flow has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of other GAAP financial measures, such as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. Free Cash Flow does not reflect our ability to meet future contractual commitments and may be calculated differently by other companies in our industry, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure.
In 2020, Free Cash Flow was $(667.1) million compared to $97.3 million in 2019, representing 2% of revenue, and $504.9 million in 2018, representing 14% of revenue in 2018. Free Cash Flow decreased in 2020 due to the reduction in Nights and Experiences Booked and GBV due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as described above, partially offset by cost reductions. Free Cash Flow decreased in 2019 largely due to higher operating expenses, while it increased in 2018 compared to the prior year primarily due to higher operating income and to a lesser extent, lower capital expenditures.
Free Cash Flow Reconciliation
The following is a reconciliation of Free Cash Flow to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, net cash provided by (used in) operating activities:
Impact of COVID-19 on our Business
COVID-19 Has Had a Disproportionately Negative Effect on the Travel Industry
In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus disease was first reported. Only three months later, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a global pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has forced international, federal, state, and local governments to enforce prohibitions of non-essential activities. The outbreak will have a continued adverse impact on economic and market conditions and has already triggered a period of global economic slowdown, the depth and breadth of which are yet to be determined.
The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in global travel restrictions and a corresponding significant reduction in travel. While many industries have been adversely impacted, travel has been disproportionately affected, as governments have implemented travel restrictions and as people have become reluctant to travel irrespective of such restrictions.