See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for a description of recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted.
Item 7A.
section_7A: Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
Our substantial operations around the world expose us to various market risks. These risks primarily include foreign currency risk and investment risk.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk
We offer the ability to transact on our platform in over 40 currencies, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations in 2020 were the Euro, British Pound, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Brazilian Real, and Chinese Yuan. Our international revenue, as well as costs and expenses denominated in foreign currencies, expose us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, we are subject to foreign currency risk, which may adversely impact our financial results.
We have foreign currency exchange risks related primarily to:
•revenue and cost of revenue associated with bookings on our platform denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar;
•balances held as funds receivable and amounts held on behalf of customers and funds payable and amounts payable to customers;
•unbilled amounts for confirmed bookings under the terms of our Pay Less Upfront program; and
•intercompany balances primarily related to our payment entities that process customer payments.
For revenue and cost of revenue associated with bookings on our platform outside of the United States, we generally receive net foreign currency amounts and therefore benefit from a weakening of the U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a strengthening of the U.S. dollar. Movements in foreign exchange rates are recorded in other income (expense), net in our consolidated statements of operations. Furthermore, our platform generally enables guests to make payments in the currency of their choice to the extent that the currency is supported by Airbnb, which may not match the currency in which the host elects to be paid. As a result, in those cases, we bear the currency risk of both the guest payment as well as the host payment due to timing differences in such payments.
In 2019, we began entering into foreign currency derivative contracts to protect against foreign exchange risks. Presently, these hedges are primarily designed to manage foreign exchange risk associated with balances held as funds payable and amounts payable to customers. These contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities.
We may choose not to hedge the risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural hedge for offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or if the currency is too difficult or too expensive to hedge.
We have experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in foreign exchange gains and losses related to changes in exchange rates. If our foreign-currency denominated assets, liabilities, revenues, or expenses increase, our results of operations may be more significantly impacted by fluctuations in the exchange rates of the currencies in which we do business.
If an adverse 10% foreign currency exchange rate change was applied to total net monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currencies as of December 31, 2020, it would not have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Investment and Interest Rate Risk
We are exposed to interest rate risk related primarily to our investment portfolio and outstanding debt. Changes in interest rates affect the interest earned on our total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities and the fair value of those securities, as well as interest paid on our debt.
We had cash and cash equivalents of $5.5 billion and marketable securities of $0.9 billion as of December 31, 2020, which consisted of corporate debt securities, mutual funds, highly-liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, and certificates of deposit. As of December 31, 2020, we had an additional $2.2 billion that we held for bookings in advance of guests completing check-ins, which we record separately on our consolidated balance sheets as funds receivable and amounts held on behalf of customers. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve capital and meet liquidity requirements without significantly increasing risk. We invest primarily in highly-liquid, investment grade debt securities, and we limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes and have not used any derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk exposure. Because our cash equivalents and marketable securities generally have short maturities, the fair value of our portfolio is relatively insensitive to interest rate fluctuations. Due to the short-term nature of our investments, we have not been exposed to, nor do we anticipate being exposed to, material risks due to changes in interest rates. A hypothetical 100 basis points increase or decrease in interest rates would not have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2020.
As of December 31, 2020, we had floating-rate loans of $1,995.0 million, subject to LIBOR floors. As a result, we are exposed to the risk related to fluctuations in interest rates to the extent LIBOR exceeds the floors. As of December 31, 2020, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates would not have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Item 8.
section_8: Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule
Page
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Balance Sheets
Consolidated Statements of Operations
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss
Consolidated Statements of Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock and Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit)
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Financial Statement Schedule
Schedule II-Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
The supplementary financial information required by this Item 8, is included in Part II, Item 7 under the caption "Selected Quarterly Financial Data.”
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Airbnb, Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Airbnb, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the related consolidated statements of operations, of comprehensive loss, of redeemable convertible preferred stock and stockholders’ equity (deficit), and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, including the related notes and schedule of valuation and qualifying accounts for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020 listed in the accompanying index (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Change in Accounting Principle
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for leases in 2019.
Basis for Opinion
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.
Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.
Uncertain Tax Positions
As described in Notes 2 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has recorded gross unrecognized tax benefits of $507.9 million relating to uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2020. Management evaluates and accounts for uncertain tax positions using a two-step approach. Recognition, step one, occurs when management concludes that a tax position, based solely on its technical merits, is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination. Measurement, step two, determines the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. The Company is in various stages of examination in connection with its ongoing tax audits globally and management believes that an adequate provision has been recorded for any adjustments that may result from tax audits. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in the Company’s tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with management’s expectations, management may be required to record an adjustment to the provision for (benefit from) income taxes in the period such resolution occurs.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to uncertain tax positions is a critical audit matter are (i) the significant judgment by management when determining uncertain tax positions, including a high degree of estimation uncertainty relative to the technical merits and the measurement of the tax positions based on interpretations of tax laws and legal rulings; (ii) a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity, and effort in performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence relating to management’s recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions; and (iii) the audit effort involved the use of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included, among others, (i) testing the completeness of management’s assessment of the identification of uncertain tax positions; (ii) testing the recognition and measurement of the liability for uncertain tax positions, including management’s assessment of the technical merits of the tax positions and the amount of tax benefit expected to be sustained; (iii) testing the information used in the calculation of the liability for uncertain tax positions, including intercompany agreements, international, federal, and state filing positions, and the related final tax returns; (iv) evaluating the status and results of income tax audits with the relevant tax