In connection with our initial public offering, our board of directors amended all awards outstanding under our 2008 Plan and 2018 Plan to settle into Class A common stock, excluding the stock options held by individuals holding at least 1% of our outstanding capital stock which were granted prior to June 30, 2017. The information above does not reflect this amendment to the outstanding equity awards granted under our 2008 Plan and 2018 Plan.
Warrants
On April 17, 2020, we issued to investors warrants to purchase an aggregate of 7,934,794 shares of our Class A common stock at an exercise price of $28.355.
The offers, sales, and issuances of securities were deemed to be exempt from registration under Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act or Rule 506 of Regulation D under the Securities Act as a transaction by an issuer not involving a public offering. The recipients of securities acquired the securities for investment only and not with a view to or for sale in connection with any distribution thereof and appropriate legends were affixed to the securities issued in these transactions. Each of the recipients of securities was an accredited investor within the meaning of Rule 501 of Regulation D under the Securities Act.
Issuance to Wholly-Owned Host Endowment Fund Subsidiary
On November 10, 2020, we issued 9,200,000 shares of our Class H common stock to our wholly-owned subsidiary, Airbnb Host Endowment LLC, for consideration consisting of the benefit to the Company related to the purpose of the Host Endowment Fund.
The offer, sale, and issuance of the securities were deemed to be exempt from registration under Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act under the Securities Act as a transaction by an issuer not involving a public offering.
Use of Proceeds
On December 14, 2020, we completed our IPO, in which we sold 55.0 million shares of our Class A common stock at a price to the public of $68 per share, which included 5.0 million shares of Class A common stock sold pursuant to the underwriters’ exercise of the option to purchase additional shares. The offer and sale of the shares in the IPO were registered under the Securities Act pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-250118), which was declared effective by the SEC on December 9, 2020. We raised approximately $3.7 billion in net proceeds after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $79.3 million and offering expenses of $9.8 million. We have used a portion of the net proceeds, and intend to use the remainder of the net proceeds, from our IPO to satisfy the tax withholding and remittance obligations related to the settlement of our outstanding RSUs in connection with our IPO totaling approximately $1.6 billion, for general corporate purposes, including working capital, operating expenses, and capital expenditures. In addition, we may use a portion of the net proceeds we received from our IPO to acquire or make investments in businesses, products, offerings, and technologies, although we do not have agreements or commitments for any material acquisitions or investments at this time.
In connection with the offering, 1,323,531 shares of Class A common stock were sold by existing stockholders. We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of shares by these stockholders nor did we bear direct costs associated with the sale of these shares.
The representatives of the underwriters of our IPO were Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC and Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC. No payments were made by us to directors, officers, or persons owning ten percent or more of our common stock or to their associates, or to our affiliates, other than payments in the ordinary course of business to officers for salaries and to non-employee directors pursuant to our director compensation policy.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
None.
Performance Graph
This performance graph shall not be deemed “filed” with the SEC for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or incorporated by reference into any filing of Airbnb, Inc. under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.
The graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our Class A common stock with the cumulative total return on the Nasdaq Composite Index (“NASDAQ”), S&P 500 Index (“S&P 500”), and the S&P 500 Information Technology Index (“S&P 500 IT”). The graph assumes $100 was invested at the market close on December 10, 2020, which was the first day our Class A common stock began trading. Data for the Nasdaq Composite Index, S&P 500 Index, and S&P 500 Information Technology Index assume reinvestment of dividends. The graph uses the closing market price on December 10, 2020 of $144.71 per share as the initial value of our Class A common stock. The comparisons in the graph below are based upon historical data and are not indicative of, nor intended to forecast, future performance of our Class A common stock.
Item 6.
section_6: Item 6. Selected Financial Data
Not required.
Item 7.
section_7: Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under the section titled “Risk Factors” or in other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Except as otherwise noted, all references to 2020 refer to the year ended December 31, 2020, references to 2019 refer to the year ended December 31, 2019, and references to 2018 refer to the year ended December 31, 2018.
Overview
Airbnb is a community based on connection and belonging-a community that was born in 2007 when two hosts welcomed three guests to their San Francisco home, and has since grown to 4 million hosts who have welcomed over 800 million guest arrivals to approximately 100,000 cities in almost every country and region across the globe. Hosts on Airbnb are everyday people who share their worlds to provide guests with the feeling of connection and being at home. Airbnb has five stakeholders and is designed with all of them in mind. Along with employees and shareholders, we serve hosts, guests, and the communities in which they live. We intend to make long-term decisions considering all of our stakeholders because their collective success is key for our business to thrive.
Our Business Model
We operate a global marketplace, where hosts offer guests stays and experiences on our platform. Our business model relies on the success of hosts and guests who join our community and generate consistent bookings over time. As hosts become more successful on our platform and as guests return over time, we benefit from the recurring activity of our community.
We experienced rapid growth since our founding through 2019. In 2019, we generated GBV of $38.0 billion, representing growth of 29% from $29.4 billion in 2018, and revenue of $4.8 billion, representing growth of 32% from $3.7 billion in 2018. During the year ended December 31, 2020, our business was materially impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, with GBV of $23.9 billion, down 37% year over year, and revenue of $3.4 billion, down 30% year over year. We expect continued volatility in these trends and fluctuations from month to month as the continued impact from COVID-19 is not linear across geographies and as COVID-19 is continuing to materially adversely affect our business and financial results.
Initial Public Offering
Our IPO was completed on December 14, 2020. Our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2020 and for the year then-ended reflect the sale by us of an aggregate of 55,000,000 shares in our IPO, including the exercise of the underwriters’ option to purchase
additional shares, at the public offering price of $68.00 per share, for net proceeds to us of approximately $3.7 billion, after underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses, and the conversion of all outstanding shares of our redeemable convertible preferred stock into an aggregate of 240,910,588 shares of Class B common stock, including 1,286,694 shares of Class B common stock issuable pursuant to the anti-dilution adjustment provisions relating to our Series C redeemable convertible preferred stock.
Our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2020 and for the year then-ended include stock-based compensation expense of $2.8 billion associated with the vesting of RSUs in connection with our IPO for which the requisite service-based vesting condition was met as of December 31, 2020. The liquidity-based vesting condition for RSUs was satisfied upon the effectiveness of our IPO Registration Statement on December 9, 2020.
Key Business Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We track the following key business metrics and financial measures that are not calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP (“non-GAAP financial measures”) to evaluate our performance, identify trends, formulate financial projections, and make strategic decisions. Accordingly, we believe that these key business metrics and non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our results of operations in the same manner as our management team. These key business metrics and non-GAAP financial measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from similarly titled metrics or measures presented by other companies. A reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP is provided under the subsection titled “- Adjusted EBITDA” and “- Free Cash Flow” below.
Key Business Metrics
We review the following key business metrics to measure our performance, identify trends, formulate financial projections, and make strategic decisions. We are not aware of any uniform standards for calculating these key metrics, which may hinder comparability with other companies that may calculate similarly titled metrics in a different way.
Nights and Experiences Booked
Nights and Experiences Booked is a key measure of the scale of our platform, which in turn drives our financial performance. Nights and Experiences Booked on our platform in a period represents the sum of the total number of nights booked for stays and the total number of seats booked for experiences, net of cancellations and alterations that occurred in that period. For example, a booking made on February 15 would be reflected in Nights and Experiences Booked for our quarter ended March 31. If, in the example, the booking were canceled on May 15, Nights and Experiences Booked would be reduced by the cancellation for our quarter ended June 30. A night can include one or more guests and can be for a listing with one or more bedrooms. A seat is booked for each participant in an experience. Substantially all of the bookings on our platform to date have come from nights. We believe Nights and Experiences Booked is a key business metric to help investors and others understand and evaluate our results of operations in the same manner as our management team, as it represents a single unit of transaction on our platform.