As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards for federal income tax purposes of $116.7 million and $5.1 billion, respectively. The federal net operating loss carryforwards will expire, if not utilized, beginning in 2034. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, the Company had federal research and development tax credit carryforwards of $84.1 million and $287.0 million, respectively. The research and development tax credits will expire beginning in 2034 if not utilized.
As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards for state income tax purposes of $167.6 million and $2.5 billion, respectively. The state net operating loss carryforwards will expire, if not utilized, beginning in 2033. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, the Company had state research and development carryforwards and enterprise zone tax credit carryforwards of $78.5 million and $200.8 million, respectively. The research and development tax credits do not expire, and the enterprise zone tax credits will expire, if not utilized, beginning in 2023.
The Tax Reform Act of 1986 and similar California legislation impose substantial restrictions on the utilization of net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards in the event that there is a change in ownership as provided by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions. Such a limitation could result in the expiration of the net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits before utilization, which could result in increased future tax liabilities.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of the Company’s total gross unrecognized tax benefits was as follows (in thousands):
The Company is in various stages of examination in connection with its ongoing tax audits globally, and it is difficult to determine when these examinations will be settled. The Company believes that an adequate provision has been recorded for any adjustments that may result from tax audits. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in the Company’s tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with management’s expectations, the Company may be required to record an adjustment to the provision for (benefit from) income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. Changes in tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations may impact the Company’s tax contingencies. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ from the amounts accrued. It is reasonably possible that within the next twelve months the Company may experience an increase or decrease in its unrecognized tax benefits as a result of additional assessments by various tax authorities, possibly reach resolution of income tax
Airbnb, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
examinations in one or more jurisdictions, or lapses of the statute of limitations. However, an estimate of the range of the reasonably possible change in the next twelve months cannot be made.
As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, $266.4 million and $184.7 million, respectively, of unrecognized tax benefits represents the amount that would, if recognized, impact the Company’s effective income tax rate.
In accordance with the Company’s accounting policy, it recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for (benefit from) income taxes. The Company’s accrual for interest and penalties was $41.4 million and $52.2 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively.
The Company’s significant tax jurisdictions include the United States, California, and Ireland. The Company is currently under examination for income taxes by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the 2013, 2016, 2017, and 2018 tax years. The primary issue under examination in the 2013 audit is the valuation of the Company’s international intellectual property which was sold to a subsidiary in 2013. In the year ended December 31, 2019, new information became available which required the Company to remeasure its reserve for unrecognized tax benefits. The Company recorded additional tax expense of $196.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2019. In December 2020, the Company received a Notice of Proposed Adjustment from the IRS which proposes an increase to the Company’s U.S. taxable income that could result in additional income tax expense and cash liability of $1.35 billion, subject to penalties and interest. If the IRS prevails in the assessment of additional tax due based on its position, the assessed tax, interest, and penalties, if any exceeding the Company’s current reserves, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company intends to vigorously contest the IRS’s proposed adjustment, including through all administrative and, if necessary, judicial remedies which includes entering into administrative settlement discussions with the IRS Independent Office of Appeals (“IRS Appeals”) in 2021, and if necessary petitioning the U.S. Tax Court (“Tax Court”) for redetermination if an acceptable outcome cannot be reached with IRS Appeals, and finally, and if necessary, appealing the Tax Court’s decision to the appropriate appellate court. The Company believes that adequate amounts have been reserved for any adjustments that may ultimately result from these examinations.
On July 27, 2015, the United States Tax Court (the “Tax Court”) issued an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner (the “Tax Court Opinion”), which concluded that related parties in a cost sharing arrangement are not required to share expenses related to stock-based compensation. The Tax Court Opinion was appealed by the Commissioner to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals (the “Ninth Circuit”). On June 7, 2019, the Ninth Circuit issued an opinion (the “Ninth Circuit Opinion”) that reversed the Tax Court Opinion. On July 22, 2019, Altera Corp. filed a petition for a rehearing before the full Ninth Circuit. On November 12, 2019, the Ninth Circuit denied Altera Corp.’s petition for rehearing its case. The Company accordingly recognized tax expense of $26.6 million related to changes in uncertain tax positions during the year ended December 31, 2019. The Company reversed this expense entirely during the year ended December 31, 2020 due to the carryback of its 2020 net operating loss as allowable under the CARES Act.
In addition, in June 2018, the Company reached a preliminary settlement with certain tax authorities with regard to a transfer pricing audit. The Company used the new information obtained in the settlement to remeasure its reserve for unrecognized tax benefits in other jurisdictions relating to similar positions. The net impact to the provision for income taxes in 2018 as a result of the settlement and remeasurement was $34.6 million. There are other ongoing audits in various other jurisdictions that are not material to the Company’s financial statements. The Company’s 2008 to 2019 tax years remain subject to examination in the United States and California due to tax attributes and statutes of limitations, and its 2014 to 2019 tax years remain subject to examination in Ireland. The Company remains subject to possible examination in various other jurisdictions that are not expected to result in material tax adjustments.
The Company’s policy with respect to its undistributed foreign subsidiaries’ earnings is to consider those earnings to be indefinitely reinvested. The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“the Act”) required a one-time transition tax on previously untaxed accumulated and current earnings and profit. Correspondingly, all undistributed earnings were deemed to be taxed in 2017 and distribution of the unremitted earnings will not have any significant U.S. federal and state income tax impact. The Company has not provided for the remaining tax effect, if any, of limited outside basis differences of its foreign subsidiaries. The determination of the future tax consequences of the remittance of these earnings is not practicable.
Note 15. Net Loss per Share
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net loss per share attributable to common stockholders for the periods indicated (in thousands, except per share amounts):
The rights, including the liquidation and dividend rights, of the holders of Class A and Class B common stock are identical, except with respect to voting and conversion. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share and each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 20 votes per share. Each share of Class B common stock is convertible into a share of Class A common stock voluntarily at any time by the holder, and automatically upon certain events. The Class A common stock has no conversion rights. As the liquidation and
Airbnb, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
dividend rights are identical for Class A and Class B common stock, the undistributed earnings are allocated on a proportional basis and the resulting net loss per share attributable to common stockholders will, therefore, be the same for both Class A and Class B common stock on an individual or combined basis.
There were no preferred dividends declared or accumulated for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020. As of December 31, 2018, RSUs to be settled in 54.7 million shares of Class B common stock and warrants to purchase 0.2 million shares of Class B common stock, were outstanding, respectively, and were excluded from the table below because they are subject to performance conditions that were not achieved as of this date. As of December 31, 2019, RSUs to be settled in 70.2 million shares of Class B common stock and 0.6 million restricted stock awards were excluded from the table below because they are subject to performance conditions that were not achieved as of such date. As of December 31, 2020, RSUs to be settled in 12.0 million shares of Class A common stock and 0.5 million restricted stock awards were excluded from the table below because they are subject to performance conditions that were not achieved as of such date.
Additionally, the following securities were not included in the computation of diluted shares outstanding because the effect would be anti-dilutive (in thousands):
Note 16. Employee Benefit Plan
The Company maintains a 401(k) defined contribution benefit plan that covers substantially all of its domestic employees. The plan allows U.S. employees to make voluntary pre-tax contributions in certain investments at the discretion of the employee, up to maximum annual contribution limits established by the U.S. Department of Treasury. The Company matched a portion of employee contributions totaling $8.3 million, $20.6 million, and $22.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020, respectively. Both employee contributions and the Company’s matching contributions are fully vested upon contribution.
Note 17. Related Party Transactions
An executive officer of the Company served on the board of directors of a payment processing vendor. The Company is party to a merchant agreement with the vendor whereby the Company earns transaction fees and incentives for offering its services to its customers in certain markets and satisfying certain base requirements pursuant to the agreement. The Company applies the transaction fees and incentives received to partially offset the merchant fees charged by the vendor. Net expense with this vendor was $19.5 million, $130.8 million, and $210.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020, respectively, and was included in cost of revenue in the consolidated statements of operations. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, amounts due to this vendor were $17.9 million and $8.3 million, respectively.
This individual was an executive officer of the Company until March 1, 2020, at which time this individual ceased being an executive officer and was appointed to the Company’s board of directors.
Note 18. Geographic Information
The following table sets forth the breakdown of revenue by geography, determined based on the location of the host’s listing (in thousands):
(1) No individual international country represented 10% or more of the Company’s total revenue for years ended December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020.
Airbnb, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
The following table sets forth the breakdown of long-lived assets based on geography (in thousands):