Cost of revenue includes payment processing costs, including merchant fees and chargebacks, costs associated with third-party data centers used to host our platform, and amortization of internally developed software and acquired technology. Because we act as the merchant of record, we incur all payment processing costs associated with our bookings, and we have chargebacks, which arise from account takeovers and other fraudulent activities. We expect our cost of revenue will continue to increase on an absolute dollar basis for the foreseeable future to the extent that we continue to see growth on our platform. Cost of revenue may vary as a percentage of revenue from year to year based on activity on our platform and may also vary from quarter to quarter as a percentage of revenue based on the seasonality of our business and the difference in the timing of when bookings are made and when we recognize revenue.
Operations and Support
Operations and support expense primarily consists of personnel-related expenses and third-party service provider fees associated with community support provided via phone, email, and chat to hosts and guests; customer relations costs, which include refunds and credits related to customer satisfaction and expenses associated with our host protection programs; and allocated costs for facilities and information technology. We expect that operations and support expense will continue to increase on an absolute dollar basis for the foreseeable future to the extent that we continue to see growth on our platform. We also expect operations and support to increase in the near-term as a percentage of revenue, as we continue to invest in trust and safety programs. We are also investing in the near-term in initiatives to reduce customer contact rates and improve the operational efficiency of our operations and support organization, which we expect will decrease operations and support expense as a percentage of revenue over the longer term. We incurred additional operations and support expense during 2020, the year in which we completed our IPO, as a result of the stock-based compensation expense associated with our RSUs as described in the subsection titled “- Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates-Stock-Based Compensation-Restricted Stock Units,” and anticipate additional stock-based compensation expense going forward.
Product Development
Product development expense primarily consists of personnel-related expenses and third-party service provider fees incurred in connection with the development of our platform, and allocated costs for facilities and information technology. We expect that our product development expense will increase on an absolute dollar basis and will vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in product development activities relating to ongoing improvements to and maintenance of our technology platform and other programs, including the hiring of personnel to support these efforts. We incurred additional product development expense during 2020, the year in which we completed our IPO, as a result of the stock-based compensation expense associated with our RSUs as described in the subsection titled “- Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates-Stock-Based Compensation-Restricted Stock Units,” and anticipate additional stock-based compensation expense going forward.
Sales and Marketing
Sales and marketing expense primarily consists of brand and performance marketing, personnel-related expenses, including those related to our field operations, policy and communications, portions of referral incentives and coupons, and allocated costs for facilities and information technology. We expect our sales and marketing expense will vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue for the foreseeable future, and over the long term, we expect it will decline as a percentage of revenue relative to 2019. We expect that sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue in the first half of 2021 will be higher than that of the second half. This is partially due to the marketing campaign that we are running in the first half of 2021 in advance of the summer travel season. We incurred additional sales and marketing expense during 2020, the year in which we completed our IPO, as a result of the stock-based compensation expense associated with our RSUs as described in the subsection titled “- Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates-Stock-Based Compensation-Restricted Stock Units,” and anticipate additional stock-based compensation expense going forward.
General and Administrative
General and administrative expense primarily consists of personnel-related expenses for management and administrative functions, including finance and accounting, legal, and human resources. General and administrative expense also includes certain professional
services fees, general corporate and director and officer insurance, allocated costs for facilities and information technology, indirect taxes, including lodging tax reserves for which we may be held jointly liable with hosts for collecting and remitting such taxes, and bad debt expense. We expect to incur additional general and administrative expense as a result of operating as a public company, including expenses to comply with the rules and regulations of the SEC and Listing Rules of Nasdaq, as well as higher expenses for corporate insurance, director and officer insurance, investor relations, and professional services. Overall, we expect our general and administrative expense will vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue for the foreseeable future. We incurred additional general and administrative expense during 2020, the year in which we completed our IPO, as a result of the stock-based compensation expense associated with our RSUs as described in the subsection titled “- Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates-Stock-Based Compensation-Restricted Stock Units,” and anticipate additional stock-based compensation expense going forward.
Restructuring Charges
Restructuring charges primarily consist of costs associated with a global workforce reduction in May 2020, lease impairments, and costs associated with amendments and terminations of contracts, including commercial agreements with service providers.
Interest Income
Interest income consists primarily of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and amounts held on behalf of customers.
Interest Expense
Interest expense consists primarily of expense related to financing lease obligations in 2018 before the adoption of Accounting Standards Codification 842, Leases (“ASC 842”), interest associated with various indirect tax reserves, amortization of debt issuance costs associated with our $1.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving Credit and Guarantee Agreement (the “2016 Credit Facility”), as well as interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs associated with our term loan agreements entered into in April 2020.
Other Income (Expense), Net
Other income (expense), net consists primarily of realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and balances, the change in fair value of investments and financial instruments, including the warrants issued in connection with a term loan agreement entered into in April 2020, and our share of income or loss from our equity method investments.
Our platform generally enables guests to make payments in the currency of their choice to the extent that the currency is supported by Airbnb, which may not match the currency in which the host elects to be paid. As a result, in those cases, we bear the currency risk of both the guest payment as well as the host payment due to timing differences in such payments. In 2019, we began entering into derivative contracts to offset a portion of our exposure to the impact of movements in currency exchange rates on our transactional balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The effects of these derivative contracts are reflected in other income (expense), net.
Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes
We are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. Foreign jurisdictions have different statutory tax rates than those in the United States. Additionally, certain of our foreign earnings may also be taxable in the United States. Accordingly, our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, intercompany transactions, changes in how we do business, acquisitions, investments, tax audit developments, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, foreign currency gains and losses, changes in statutes, regulations, case law, and administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our effective tax rate can vary based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower.
We have a valuation allowance for our net deferred tax assets, including federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, tax credits, and intangible assets. We expect to maintain these valuation allowances until it becomes more likely than not that the benefit of our deferred tax assets will be realized by way of expected future taxable income in the United States and Ireland. We recognize accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for (benefit from) income taxes.
As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, we had net operating loss carryforwards for federal income tax purposes of $116.7 million and $5.1 billion, respectively. The federal net operating loss carryforwards will expire, if not utilized, beginning in 2034. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, we had net operating loss carryforwards for state income tax purposes of $167.6 million and $2.5 billion, respectively. The state net operating loss carryforwards will expire, if not utilized, beginning in 2033.
In the event that we experience an ownership change within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, our ability to utilize net operating losses, tax credits, and other tax attributes may be limited. The most recent analysis of our historical ownership changes was completed through December 31, 2020. Based on the analysis, we do not anticipate a permanent limitation on the existing tax attributes under Section 382, although subsequent changes in our ownership structure may create such a limitation.
We are currently under examination for income taxes by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the years 2013, 2016, 2017, and 2018. In December 2020, we received a Notice of Proposed Adjustment from the IRS for the 2013 tax year relating to the valuation of our international intellectual property which was sold to a subsidiary in 2013. The notice proposes an increase to our U.S. taxable income that
could result in additional income tax expense and cash tax liability of $1.35 billion, plus penalties and interest, which exceeds our current reserve recorded in our consolidated financial statements by more than $1.0 billion. We intend to vigorously contest the IRS’s proposed adjustment, including through all administrative and, if necessary, judicial remedies which may include: entering into administrative settlement discussions with the IRS Independent Office of Appeals (“IRS Appeals”) in 2021, and if necessary petitioning the U.S. Tax Court (“Tax Court”) for redetermination if an acceptable outcome cannot be reached with IRS Appeals, and finally, and if necessary, appealing the Tax Court’s decision to the appropriate appellate court. If the IRS prevails in the assessment of additional tax due based on its position and such tax and related interest and penalties, if any, exceeds our current reserves, such outcome could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations, and any assessment of additional tax could require a significant cash payment and have a material adverse impact on our cash flow.
Results of Operations
The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented:
(1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows:
The following table sets forth the components of our consolidated statements of operations for each of the periods presented as a percentage of revenue:
Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020
Revenue