Net cash used in operating activities for 2020 was $629.7 million. Our net loss for 2020 was $4.6 billion, adjusted for non-cash charges, primarily consisting of $3.0 billion of stock-based compensation expense, $868.5 million of fair value remeasurement on warrants issued in connection with a term loan agreement entered into in April 2020, $125.9 million of depreciation and amortization, $107.7 million of bad debt expense, and $82.1 million of impairment charges of investments. Additional uses of cash resulted from changes in working capital, including a $267.0 million decrease in unearned fees resulting from fewer bookings on our platform due to COVID-19.
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2019 was $222.7 million. Our net loss for 2019 was $674.3 million, adjusted for non-cash charges, primarily consisting of $114.2 million of depreciation and amortization, $97.5 million of stock-based compensation expense, and $77.1 million of bad debt expense. Additional sources of cash flows resulted from changes in working capital, including a $547.7 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities resulting from increased spending and headcount growth, as well as a $176.3 million increase in unearned fees resulting from increased bookings on our platform. The primary use of operating cash was a $186.4 million increase in prepaids and other assets associated with the growth in our operations.
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2018 was $595.6 million. Our net loss for 2018 was $16.9 million, adjusted for non-cash charges, primarily consisting of $82.4 million of depreciation and amortization, $53.9 million of stock-based compensation expense, and $49.0 million of bad debt expense. Additional sources of cash flows resulted from changes in working capital, including a $348.1 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities resulting from increased spending and headcount growth, as well as a $145.9 million increase in unearned fees resulting from increased bookings on our platform. The primary use of operating cash was a $102.8 million increase in prepaids and other assets associated with the growth in our operations.
Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities
Net cash provided by investing activities in 2020 was $79.6 million, which was primarily provided by proceeds resulting from sales and maturities of marketable securities of $1.3 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, partially offset by cash used to purchase marketable securities of $3.0 billion and property and equipment of $37.4 million.
Net cash used in investing activities in 2019 was $347.2 million, which was primarily used to purchase marketable securities of $1.0 billion and property and equipment of $125.5 million, to fund acquisitions of $192.1 million, and to make equity investments in privately-held companies of $208.2 million. These uses were partially offset by proceeds resulting from sales and maturities of marketable securities of $609.4 million and $551.6 million, respectively.
Net cash used in investing activities in 2018 was $668.2 million, which was primarily used to purchase marketable securities of $1.3 billion and property and equipment of $90.6 million, to fund acquisitions of $31.3 million, and to make equity investments in privately-held companies of $28.9 million. These uses were partially offset by proceeds resulting from sales and maturities of marketable securities of $555.2 million and $201.3 million, respectively.
Cash Provided by Financing Activities
Net cash provided by financing activities in 2020 was $2.9 billion, primarily reflecting proceeds of $3.7 billion from the issuance of Class A common stock upon IPO, net of underwriting discounts and offering costs, $1.9 billion from the issuance of long-term debt and warrants, net of issuance costs, partially offset by a decrease of $1.7 billion for taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards and $1.0 billion in funds payable and amounts payable to customers.
Net cash provided by financing activities in 2019 was $854.6 million, reflecting the change in funds payable and amounts payable to customers of $848.7 million and proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $5.9 million.
Net cash provided by financing activities in 2018 was $140.5 million, primarily reflecting the change in funds payable and amounts payable to customers of $117.6 million, proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $16.0 million, and reimbursements for improvements we made at leased office facilities of $6.9 million.
Effect of Exchange Rates
The effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash on our consolidated statements of cash flows relates to certain of our assets, principally cash balances held on behalf of hosts and guests, that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of certain of our subsidiaries. During 2020, we recorded a $134.1 million increase in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar. During 2019 and 2018, we recorded a $25.3 million and a $158.9 million reduction in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash, respectively, primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar. The impact of exchange rate changes on cash balances can serve as a natural hedge for the effect of exchange rates on our liabilities to our guests and hosts.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
As of December 31, 2020, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Regulation S-K, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
Indemnification Agreements
In the ordinary course of business, we include limited indemnification provisions under certain agreements with parties with whom we have commercial relations of varying scope and terms. Under these contracts, we may indemnify, hold harmless and agree to reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party in connection with breach of the agreements, or intellectual property infringement claims made by a third party, including claims by a third party with respect to our domain names, trademarks, logos and other branding elements to the extent that such marks are applicable to its performance under the subject agreement. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential loss under these indemnification provisions due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular provision. To date, no significant costs have been incurred, either individually or collectively, in connection with our indemnification provisions.
In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors, executive officers and certain other employees that require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors, executive officers, or employees.
Contractual Obligations and Commitments
The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2020:
(1)Excludes income tax matters as we are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash flows related to uncertain tax positions. For further discussion of income taxes, refer to Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
(2)Consists of future non-cancelable minimum rental payments under operating lease obligations, excluding short-term leases. Refer to Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
(3)Noncancelable purchase commitments include amounts related to our commercial agreement with a data hosting services provider, pursuant to which we committed to spend an aggregate of at least $1.2 billion for vendor services through 2027.
(4)Consists of two separate loan agreements entered into in April 2020, including principal and interest. Refer to Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Amounts represent the future principal and interest payments based on contractual interest rates.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs, and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following accounting policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
Revenue Recognition
We recognize revenue in accordance with ASC Topic 606, which we adopted as of January 1, 2018 on a full retrospective basis. We generate substantially all of our revenue from facilitating guest stays at accommodations offered by hosts on the Airbnb platform. We consider both hosts and guests to be our customers. Our revenue is comprised of service fees from our customers. Our single performance obligation is identified as the facilitation of a stay, which occurs upon the completion of a check-in event. Revenue is recognized at a point in time when the performance obligation is satisfied upon check-in.
We evaluate the presentation of revenue on a gross versus net basis based on whether or not we are the principal in the transaction (gross) or whether we arrange for other parties to provide the service to guests and are the agent (net) in the transaction. We determined that we do not control the right to use the accommodations provided by us either before or after completion of our service. Accordingly, we concluded that we are acting in an agent capacity and revenue is presented net reflecting the service fees received from our customers to facilitate a stay.
Revenue is presented net of certain payments we make to customers as part of our referral programs and marketing promotions, collectively referred to as our incentive programs, and refund activities. The payments are generally in the form of coupon credits to be applied toward future bookings or as cash refunds. We encourage the use of our platform and attract new customers through our incentive programs. Under the referral program, the referring party (“referrer”) earns a coupon when the new host or guest (“referee”) completes their first stay on our platform. We record the incentive as a liability at the time the incentive is earned by the referrer with the corresponding charge recorded to sales and marketing expense. Any amounts paid in excess of the fair value of the referral service received are recorded as a reduction of revenue. Through marketing promotions, we issue customer coupon credits to encourage the use of our platform. After a customer redeems such incentives, we record a reduction to revenue at the date we record the corresponding revenue transaction. From time to time, we issue refunds to customers in the form of cash or credits to be applied toward a future booking. We reduce the transaction price by the estimated amount of the payments by applying the most likely outcome method based on known facts and circumstances and historical experience. These refunds are recorded as a reduction to revenue.
We evaluate whether the cumulative amount of payments made to customers that are not in exchange for a distinct good or service received from a customer exceeds the cumulative revenue earned since inception of the customer relationship. Any cumulative payments in excess of cumulative revenue are presented as operating expenses in our consolidated statements of operations.
Stock-Based Compensation
We have granted stock-based awards consisting primarily of stock options, restricted common stock, and restricted stock units (“RSUs”) to employees, members of our board of directors, and non-employees. We estimate the fair value of stock options granted using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires certain subjective inputs and assumptions, including the fair value of our common stock, the expected term, risk-free interest rates, expected stock price volatility, and expected dividend yield of our common stock. The fair value of stock options is recognized as stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. We account for forfeitures as they occur.