Many of our hosts have been severely impacted by COVID-19, with increased cancellations and a drop in bookings. Despite the impact of COVID-19 on host earnings and our business, our host and active listing counts were stable for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. We count the number of hosts on our platform based on the number of users with available listings, defined as accommodations and experiences that are viewable on a certain date on our platform (excluding Hotel Tonight), as of a certain date and we consider a listing of a home or an experience to be an “active listing” if it is viewable on Airbnb and has been previously booked at least once on Airbnb (excluding Hotel Tonight). In addition, many of our guests have been unable to travel during the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite this, starting in the second half of 2020, demand from guests grew year-over-year for stays less than 50 miles and within 50-300 miles from guest origin and long-term stays, or stays on our platform of at least 28 nights. We believe the way people travel will fundamentally change. Since the pandemic started, we have seen guests turn to Airbnb for new use cases, such as living closer to family, living nomadically, working remotely, and remote schooling.
We believe that the COVID-19 pandemic reinforced that travel is an enduring human desire, even in the face of challenges. People have increasingly sought travel options closer to home during COVID-19, and Airbnb’s offerings are well suited to adapt to this changing dynamic. We offer all types of accommodations, allowing guests to find spaces suited to their individual needs under these circumstances. We have worked closely with our hosts, guests, and communities to prioritize and support safe and responsible travel during these challenging times and have adapted our offerings for changing trends in travel and experiences.
Specifically, based on the increase in domestic and short-distance travel, we updated our website and mobile apps to actively promote available local and non-urban stays so guests can find something that fits their unique needs for location and desired length of time. In addition, in order to support hosts and guests during the COVID-19 pandemic, we applied our extenuating circumstances policy to a significant number of impacted reservations. This policy allows hosts and guests to cancel reservations that are disrupted by epidemics, natural disasters, and other emergencies. To support our hosts and lessen the impact of cancellations under this policy, we committed up to $250 million for hosts impacted by COVID-19 and an additional $17 million fund for Superhosts, the majority of which was distributed as of December 31, 2020. The reservations eligible for the $250 million host program were defined as reservations made on or before March 14, 2020 with a check-in date between March 14, 2020 and May 31, 2020. Check-ins represent individual stays or experiences that occur during a period that have not been canceled. For these reservations, eligible hosts are entitled to receive 25% of the amount they would have received from guests under the host’s cancellation policies.
Our Platform
Our Platform for Hosts
Hosts have a variety of needs, and we are focused on designing solutions to serve them. We built our platform to seamlessly onboard new hosts, especially those who previously had not considered hosting. We partner with hosts throughout the process of setting up their listing and provide them with a robust suite of tools to successfully manage their listings, including scheduling, merchandising, integrated payments, community support, host protections, pricing recommendations, and feedback from reviews. Our host protection program provides property damage protection of up to $1 million for every listing and liability coverage to hosts of up to $1 million per occurrence in the event of third-party claims of personal injury or property damage. We are constantly innovating our platform to deliver new tools and services to make hosting easier and empower hosts to earn income doing what they love.
Our Platform for Guests
Airbnb’s website and mobile apps provide our guests with an engaging way to explore a wide variety of unique homes and experiences and an easy way to book them. Our homepage showcases inspiring, browsable content that highlights the product’s range and shows off the best of our inventory. The listing for each stay or experience tells potential guests everything they need to know through photos, reviews from past guests, and detailed descriptions. At checkout, guests can review trip details and pay all on one simplified screen. Everything a guest needs to know before, during, or after their trip is stored on one clear, easy-to-follow page. We enable customizable wishlists for guests in the planning stage of travel, in-app guest-to-host messaging before, during, and after a trip, and an easy way to leave reviews that contribute back to the Airbnb community.
Our System of Trust
One of our core innovations has been the design of a system that allows millions of strangers to trust one another. Hosts and guests have the ability to communicate before booking, pay through our secure payments platform, and post reviews after their stays or experiences. Our trust team works to help protect our community by deploying risk scoring, fraud detection, screening, verification, and other technologies and processes that vary depending on the region. Our trained safety agents are available should our hosts and guests need to reach us. We offer additional support to our community through our Host Guarantee Program which protects hosts against property damage of up to $1 million, and our Host Protection Insurance and Experience Protection Insurance, which provide liability insurance of up to $1 million to protect our hosts against qualifying third-party claims for personal injury or property damage. Through our trust innovations, our goal is to help make Airbnb stays and experiences safe for hosts, guests, and communities.
The system for trust that we have designed includes the following components: reviews, secure messaging and account protection, risk scoring, secure payments, watchlist and background checks in certain jurisdictions, cleanliness, fraud and scam prevention, insurance and protections, booking restrictions, an urgent safety line, 24/7 neighborhood support line, and guest refund policy.
In addition to these components, we have new initiatives in the pipeline and will continue to create additional features to strengthen the trust and safety on our platform. Designing for trust has been a core principle from the very beginning, and as we innovate new ways for strangers to trust one another, we make it possible for more connections to be made.
Our Technology
We built our technology platform to power our global network of hosts and guests. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 1,480 engineers within our product development organization. Given the nature of the business, our technology platform has broad and complex requirements:
•Our core platform supports global payment capabilities, multilingual real-time community safety and support, and city-specific product requirements, and it contains sophisticated anti-fraud measures.
•It delivers deep business intelligence insights to manage our marketplace, including pricing insights and occupancy optimization for our hosts.
•It incorporates sophisticated machine learning to power key areas, from fraud detection to enabling customized and real-time community support.
•To allow us to respond even more rapidly and efficiently to evolving consumer needs, we are moving our platform from a legacy monolith to a service-oriented architecture.
Our transition to a service-oriented architecture is only one part of a plan to make our core business capabilities available as granular services that accelerate creation of new products and offerings. This work will continue as we build a platform that is increasingly robust, agile, and efficient. In parallel, we will continue to develop our foundational technology with a focus on the following broad capabilities:
•Data management systems that continue to support user privacy, analytics, machine learning, and business insights.
•Service reliability leading to best-in-class performance centered on availability, latency, disaster recovery and business continuity, security, testability, observability, operability, and agility.
•Cloud support focusing on robust capabilities for granular attribution and usage patterns to realize efficiency gains. We currently rely primarily on Amazon Web Services to provide cloud computing services.
Our aim in making these investments is to continue to develop a robust platform that allows us to more quickly adapt to the needs of our hosts and guests around the world and increase the productivity of our product development organization.
Our Marketing
Our marketing strategy includes brand marketing, communications, and performance marketing. Brand marketing increases awareness among potential hosts and guests, helping them understand the benefits of hosting and booking stays and experiences and what makes these stays and experiences distinctly Airbnb. Our communications team works across press, policy, and influencers to share timely and important news about Airbnb. They also oversee the execution of a global consumer, product, corporate, and policy communications plan that supports our brand strategy and generates considerable press and social media coverage. While performance marketing drives additional traffic from high-intent prospective guests, the strength of the Airbnb brand and our communications strategy allows us to be less reliant on performance marketing.
Our Employees
As of December 31, 2020, we had 5,597 employees in 27 cities around the world. Because of the COVID-19 crisis, we made the difficult decision to reduce our workforce by approximately 1,800 employees in May 2020, which was approximately a quarter of our workforce at the time.
As of December 31, 2020, we relied on a network of approximately 7,570 third-party partners that are spread across 24 sites, and individuals who work from home around the world to handle the vast majority of our community support contacts. Our internal community support employees are comprised of operations teams who handle complex and sensitive issues and enablement teams who support all community-facing teams, including our partners. We are proud of our approach to working with partners and our deep relationships with them.
Our Culture
The most defining part of working at Airbnb is our culture. Our culture is optimistic, with people who are passionate about our mission, caring about others, and curious about the world. We took the unique characteristics of the people at Airbnb and distilled them to four values:
•Champion the mission. Our employees are deeply passionate about connection and belonging, and the product that we make to deliver this. In fact, many of our employees are people from our host and guest community whom we hired.
•Be a host. Our employees are the kind of people who like caring for others and making them feel like they belong, just like the hosts in our community.
•Embrace the adventure. Our employees are curious and optimistic - you have to be an optimistic person to believe that the idea of Airbnb is a good one, and you have to be curious about other people and cultures to want to connect with them.
•Be a cereal entrepreneur. Our employees are bold and resourceful.
We believe that every person who joins Airbnb, from board members and executives to college new hires, should share these four attributes. Most importantly, we believe that whatever we want to happen outside the walls of Airbnb should first start inside Airbnb. This starts with our own employees. In this way, our culture is the source of all future innovation, and a North Star for how people in our community should treat each other.
Diversity and Belonging
At Airbnb, diversity and belonging is more than a corporate responsibility - it is central to what we stand for. We attract a diverse group of people and welcome their varied knowledge, experiences, and backgrounds. Through our hiring process, we commit to encouraging diversity and eliminating bias, and we publish the changing demographic makeup of our workforce to hold ourselves accountable.