We have been, and expect to continue to be, a party to various legal and regulatory claims, litigation or pre-litigation disputes, and proceedings arising in the normal course of business. The number and significance of these claims, disputes, and proceedings have increased as our company has grown larger, the number of bookings on our platform has increased, there is increased brand awareness, and the scope and complexity of our business have expanded, and we expect they will continue to increase.
We have been, and expect to continue to be, subject to various government inquiries, investigations, and proceedings related to legal and regulatory requirements such as compliance with laws related to short-term rentals and home sharing, tax, consumer protection, pricing, advertising, discrimination, data protection, data sharing, payment processing, privacy, and competition. In many cases, these inquiries, investigations, and proceedings can be complex, time consuming, costly to investigate, and require significant company and also management attention. For certain matters, we are implementing recommended changes to our products, operations, and compliance practices, including enabling tax collection, tax reporting, display of host registration numbers, and removal of noncompliant listings. We are unable to predict the outcomes and implications of such inquiries, investigations, and proceedings on our business, and such inquiries, investigations, and proceedings could result in damages, large fines and penalties and require changes to our products and operations, and materially adversely affect our brand, reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. In some instances, applicable laws and regulations do not yet exist or are being adapted and implemented to address certain aspects of our business, and such adoption or change in their interpretation could further alter or impact our business and subject us to future government inquiries, investigations, and proceedings.
We have been involved in litigation with national governments, trade associations and industry bodies, municipalities, and other government authorities, including as a plaintiff and as a defendant, concerning laws seeking to limit or outlaw short-term rentals and to impose obligations or liability on us as a platform. In the United States, we have been involved in various lawsuits concerning whether our platform is responsible for alleged wrongful conduct by hosts who engage in short-term rentals. Claims in such cases have alleged illegal hotel conversions, real estate license requirements, violations of municipal law around short-term occupancy or rentals, unlawful evictions, or violations of lease provisions or homeowners’ association rules. Legal claims have been asserted for alleged discriminatory conduct undertaken by hosts against certain guests, and for our own platform policies or business practices. Changes to the interpretation of the applicability of fair housing, civil rights or other statutes to our business or the conduct of our users could materially adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may also become more vulnerable to third-party claims as U.S. laws such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (“DMCA”), the Stored Communications Act, and the Communications Decency Act (“CDA”), and non-U.S. laws such as the European E-Commerce Directive and its national transpositions are interpreted by the courts or otherwise modified or amended, as our platform and services to our hosts and guests continue to expand, and as we expand geographically into jurisdictions where the underlying laws with respect to the potential liability of online intermediaries such as ourselves are either unclear or less favorable.
In addition, we face claims and litigation relating to fatalities, shootings, other violent acts, illness (including COVID-19), cancellations and refunds, personal injuries, property damage, carbon monoxide incidents, and privacy violations that occurred at listings or experiences during a booking made on our platform. We also have putative class action litigation and government inquiries, and could face additional litigation and government inquiries and fines relating to our business practices, cancellations and other consequences due to natural disasters or other unforeseen events beyond our control such as wars, regional hostilities, health concerns, including epidemics and pandemics such as COVID-19, or law enforcement demands and other regulatory actions.
Notwithstanding the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union (“CJEU”) on December 19, 2019 ruling that Airbnb is a provider of information society services under the E-Commerce Directive, there continue to be new laws and government initiatives within the European Union attempting to regulate Airbnb as a platform. In several cases, national courts are evaluating whether certain local rules imposing obligations on platforms can be enforced against us. For example, we are challenging laws in various European jurisdictions
requiring short-term rental platforms to act as withholding tax agent for host income taxes, to collect and remit tourist taxes, and to disclose user data. Adverse rulings in these national cases are possible and could result in changes to our business practices in significant ways, increased operating and compliance costs, and lead to a loss of revenue for us. In addition, the European Union plans to amend the E-Commerce Directive by means of the Digital Services Act.
In addition, in the ordinary course of business, disputes may arise because we are alleged to have infringed third parties’ intellectual property or in which we agree to provide indemnification to third parties with respect to certain matters, including losses arising from our breach of such agreements or from intellectual property infringement claims, or where we make other contractual commitments to third parties. We also have indemnification agreements with certain of our directors, executive officers, and certain other employees that require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers. We may be subject to litigation stemming from these obligations.
Adverse results in any regulatory inquiry, litigation, legal proceedings, or claims may include awards of potentially significant monetary damages, including statutory damages for certain causes of action in certain jurisdictions, penalties, fines, injunctive relief, royalty or licensing agreements, or orders preventing us from offering certain services. Moreover, many regulatory inquiries, litigation, legal proceedings, or claims are resolved by settlements that can include both monetary and nonmonetary components. Adverse results or settlements may result in changes in our business practices in significant ways, increased operating and compliance costs, and a loss of revenue. In addition, any litigation or pre-litigation claims against us, whether or not meritorious, are time consuming, require substantial expense, and result in the diversion of significant operational resources. We use various software platforms that in some instances have limited functionality which may impede our ability to fully retrieve records. In addition, our insurance may not cover all potential claims to which we are exposed and may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. As we continue to grow, regulatory inquiries, litigation, legal proceedings, and other claims will continue to consume significant company resources and adverse results in future matters could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
We could face liability for information or content on or accessible through our platform.
We could face claims relating to information or content that is made available on our platform. Our platform relies upon content that is created and posted by hosts, guests, or other third parties. Although content on our platform is typically generated by third parties, and not by us, claims of defamation, disparagement, negligence, warranty, personal harm, intellectual property infringement, or other alleged damages could be asserted against us, in addition to our hosts and guests. While we rely on a variety of statutory and common-law frameworks and defenses, including those provided by the DMCA, the CDA, the fair-use doctrine and various tort law defenses in the United States and the E-Commerce Directive in the European Union, differences between statutes, limitations on immunity or responsibility, requirements to maintain immunity or proportionate responsibility, and moderation efforts in the many jurisdictions in which we operate may affect our ability to rely on these frameworks and defenses, or create uncertainty regarding liability for information or content uploaded by hosts and guests or otherwise contributed by third-parties to our platform. Moreover, regulators in the United States and in other countries may introduce new regulatory regimes that increase potential liability for information or content available on our platform. For example, in the United States, laws such as the CDA, which have previously been interpreted to provide substantial protection to interactive computer service providers, may change and become less predictable or unfavorable by legislative action or juridical interpretation. There have been various federal legislative efforts to restrict the scope of the protections available to online platforms under the CDA, in particular with regards to Section 230 of the CDA, and current protections from liability for third-party content in the United States could decrease or change. There is proposed U.S. federal legislation seeking to hold platforms liable for user-generated content, including content related to short-term rentals. We could incur significant costs investigating and defending such claims and, if we are found liable, significant damages. The European Union is also reviewing the regulation of digital services, and in December 2020, the European Commission published a draft of the proposed Digital Services Act (“DSA”), a package of legislation intended to update the liability and safety rules for digital platforms, products, and services, which could negatively impact the scope of the limited immunity provided by the E-Commerce Directive. Some European jurisdictions have also proposed or intend to pass legislation that imposes new obligations and liabilities on platforms with respect to certain types of harmful content. In parallel, the European Commission also published a legislative proposal to introduce new ex ante regulation of online platforms and new market investigation powers as a separate piece of legislation, the Digital Markets Act (“DMA”). If the DMA is enacted, it may contain certain regulatory requirements and/or obligations that negatively impact our business. Some European jurisdictions (such as the United Kingdom and Germany) are also reviewing their competition rules in relation to digital platforms which could lead to new regulations similar to the DMA at national level. While the scope and timing of these proposals are currently evolving, if enacted and applied to our platform, the new rules may adversely affect our business. In countries in Asia and Latin America, generally there are not similar statutes as the CDA or E-Commerce Directive. The laws of countries in Asia and Latin America generally provide for direct liability if a platform is involved in creating such content or has actual knowledge of the content without taking action to take it down. Further, laws in some Asian countries also provide for primary or secondary liability, which can include criminal liability, if a platform failed to take sufficient steps to prevent such content from being uploaded. Because liability often flows from information or content on our platform and/or services accessed through our platform, as we continue to expand our offerings, tiers, and scope of business, both in terms of the range of offerings and services and geographical operations, we may face or become subject to additional or different laws and regulations. Our potential liability for information or content created by third parties and posted to our platform could require us to implement additional measures to reduce our exposure to such liability, may require us to expend significant resources, may limit the desirability of our platform to hosts and guests, may cause damage to our brand or reputation, and may cause us to incur time and costs defending such claims in litigation, thereby materially adversely affecting our business, results of operations, and financial condition.