Subsequent to January 1, 2020, the Company accounts for credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities in accordance with Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) (“ASU No. 2016-13”), which the Company adopted on January 1, 2020. If the amortized cost basis of an available-for-sale security exceeds its fair value and if the Company has the intention to sell the security or it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of the amortized cost basis, an impairment is recognized in the consolidated statements of operations. If the Company does not have the intention to sell the security and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of the amortized cost basis and the Company determines that the unrealized loss is entirely or partially due to credit-related factors, the credit loss is measured and recognized as an allowance on the consolidated balance sheets with a corresponding charge in the consolidated statements of operations. The allowance is measured as the amount by which the debt security’s amortized cost basis exceeds the Company’s best estimate of the present value of cash flows expected to be collected. Any remaining decline in fair value that is non-credit related is recognized in other comprehensive income (loss). Improvements in expected cash flows due to improvements in credit are recognized through reversal of the credit loss and corresponding reduction in the allowance for credit loss.
Non-Marketable Investments
Non-marketable investments consist of debt and equity investments in privately-held companies, which are classified as other assets, noncurrent on the consolidated balance sheets. The Company classifies its non-marketable investments that meet the definition of a debt security as available-for-sale. The accounting policy for debt securities classified as available-for-sale is described above. The Company’s non-marketable equity investments are accounted for using either the equity method of accounting or equity investments without readily determinable fair value measurement alternative.
The Company uses the equity method if it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the operating and financial policies of the investee. For investments accounted for using the equity method, the Company’s proportionate share of its equity interest in the net income or loss of these companies is recorded in the consolidated statements of operations within other income (expense), net. The carrying amount of the investment in equity interests is adjusted to reflect the Company’s interest in the investee’s net income or loss and any impairments and is classified in other assets, noncurrent on the consolidated balance sheets.
Equity investments for which the Company is not able to exercise significant influence over the investee and for which fair value is not readily determinable are accounted for using the measurement alternative. Such investments are carried at cost, less any impairments, and are adjusted for subsequent observable price changes obtained from orderly transactions for identical or similar investments issued by the same investee. This election is reassessed each reporting period to determine whether non-marketable equity securities have a readily determinable fair value, in which case they would no longer be eligible for this election. Changes in the basis of the equity investment are recognized in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of operations.
The Company reviews each of its non-marketable debt and equity investments for impairment at the end of each reporting period or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable. Impairment indicators might include negative changes in industry and market conditions, financial performance, business prospects, and other relevant events and factors. Upon determining that an impairment exists, the Company recognizes as an impairment in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of operations the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the investment.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. U.S. GAAP establishes a hierarchical disclosure framework which prioritizes and ranks the level of market price observability used in measuring financial instruments at fair value. This hierarchy requires the Company to use observable market data when available and to minimize the use of unobservable inputs when determining fair value. Financial instruments with readily available quoted prices in active markets generally will have a higher degree of market price observability and a lesser degree of judgment used in measuring fair value.
Financial instruments measured and disclosed at fair value are classified and disclosed based on the observability of inputs used in the determination of fair value as follows:
Level 1: Observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets.
Level 2: Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices in less active markets or model-derived valuations that are observable either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Unobservable inputs in which there is little or no market data that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
The carrying amount of the Company’s financial instruments, including cash equivalents, funds receivable and amounts held on behalf of customers, accounts payable, accrued liabilities, funds payable and amounts payable to customers, and unearned fees approximate their respective fair values because of their short maturities.
Level 2 Valuation Techniques
Financial instruments classified as Level 2 within the Company’s fair value hierarchy are valued on the basis of prices from an orderly transaction between market participants provided by reputable dealers or pricing services. Prices of these securities are obtained through independent, third-party pricing services and include market quotations that may include both observable and unobservable inputs. In determining the value of a particular investment, pricing services may use certain information with respect to transactions in such
Airbnb, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
investments, quotations from dealers, pricing matrices and market transactions in comparable investments and various relationships between investments. The Company’s foreign exchange derivative instruments are valued using pricing models that take into account the contract terms, as well as multiple inputs where applicable, such as interest rate yield curves and currency rates.
Level 3 Valuation Techniques
Financial instruments classified as Level 3 within the Company’s fair value hierarchy consist primarily of a derivative warrant liability relating to the warrants issued in conjunction with the second lien loan discussed in Note 11, Debt. Valuation techniques for the derivative warrant liability include the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with key assumptions such as stock price volatility, expected term, and risk-free interest rates.
Internal-Use Software
The Company capitalizes certain costs in connection with obtaining or developing software for internal use. Additionally, the Company capitalizes qualifying costs incurred for upgrades and enhancements that result in additional functionality to existing software. Amortization of such costs begins when the project is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. Capitalized software development costs are classified as property and equipment, net on the consolidated balance sheets and are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the applicable software.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization.
Depreciation and amortization on property and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives indicated below:
Costs of maintenance and repairs that do not improve or extend the useful lives of assets are expensed as incurred. Upon retirement or sale, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the consolidated balance sheet and the resulting gain or loss is reflected in the consolidated statements of operations.
Business Combinations
The Company accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting, under which all assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their respective fair values at the date of acquisition. The excess purchase price over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Transaction costs associated with business combinations are expensed as incurred.
Leases
The Company determines whether an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception. Operating lease right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. Operating lease liabilities represent the present value of lease payments not yet paid. Operating lease ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset and are based upon the operating lease liabilities adjusted for prepayments or accrued lease payments, initial direct costs, lease incentives, and impairment of operating lease assets. As most of the Company’s leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
The Company’s leases often contain rent escalations over the lease term. The Company recognizes expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Additionally, tenant incentives, primarily used to fund leasehold improvements, are recognized when earned and reduce the Company’s right-of-use asset related to the lease. These are amortized through the right-of-use asset as reductions of expense over the lease term.
The Company’s lease agreements may contain variable costs such as common area maintenance, operating expenses or other costs. Variable lease costs are expensed as incurred on the consolidated statements of operations. The Company’s lease agreements generally do not contain any residual value guarantees or restrictive covenants.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination. The Company has one reporting unit. The Company tests goodwill for impairment at least annually, in the fourth quarter, or whenever events or changes in
Airbnb, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. There were no impairment charges in any of the periods presented in the consolidated financial statements. Refer to Note 7, Intangible Assets and Goodwill, for additional information.
Intangible Assets
Intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives ranging from one to ten years. The Company reviews intangible assets for impairment under the long-lived asset model described below. There were no impairment charges in any of the periods presented in the consolidated financial statements. Refer to Note 7, Intangible Assets and Goodwill, for additional information.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
Long-lived assets that are held and used by the Company are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Determination of recoverability of long-lived assets is based on an estimate of the undiscounted cash flows resulting from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. If the carrying value of the long-lived asset is not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flow basis, impairment is recognized to the extent that the carrying value exceeds its fair value. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques including discounted cash flow models, quoted market values, and third-party independent appraisals.
Any impairments to ROU assets, leasehold improvements, or other assets as a result of a sublease, abandonment, or other similar factor are initially recognized when a decision to do so is made and recorded as an operating expense. Similar to other long-lived assets, management tests ROU assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances occur that could impact the recoverability of these assets. For leased assets, such circumstances would include subleases that do not fully recover the costs of the associated leases or a decision to abandon the use of all or part of an asset. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded $35.8 million of ROU asset impairment charges within restructuring charges in the consolidated statement of operations.
Revenue Recognition
The Company generates substantially all of its revenue from facilitating guest stays at accommodations offered by hosts on the Company’s platform.