As of December 31, 2020, under-represented minority populations represented 12% of our U.S.-based employees and those who identify in the gender binary as women made up 47% of our global employees. We have set a goal for ourselves by the end of 2025 to have 20% of our product development and information technology employees be under-represented minorities at all levels, 20% of our U.S. employees be under-represented minorities, and 50% of employees at all levels be women, using the gender binary. Also, we announced a commitment that 20% of our Board of Directors and Executive Team, collectively, will be people of color by the end of 2021.
Reducing the Incidents of Bias on Airbnb
Airbnb is centered around belonging, and discrimination is a central obstacle to it. Just as discrimination exists in society, it exists in the Airbnb community, and we are committed to combating it. In 2016, we began taking steps to address discrimination on Airbnb.
First, we created the Airbnb Nondiscrimination Policy, which we required every host and guest to agree to in order to use Airbnb. If a host or guest does not agree to the policy, they are removed from our platform.
Next, we created an anti-discrimination team of technical professionals that work to fight bias and discrimination, changed the way we show profile photos so hosts only see a guest’s photo after a reservation is confirmed, and distributed an antiracism guide to our hosts and guests in the United States.
Most recently, in June 2020, we launched Project Lighthouse, a groundbreaking project launched in partnership with Color of Change, the nation’s largest online racial justice organization, along with guidance from civil rights groups and privacy rights organizations. Project Lighthouse will allow us to measure discrimination on Airbnb based on perception. These perceptions will be aggregated and used to identify and measure discrepancies in people’s experiences that could be the result of discrimination. We will use the findings from Project Lighthouse to inform and design our products and policies to combat racial discrimination that Black guests and other people of color face when using Airbnb.
Regulations
We are subject to laws, regulations, and rules that affect the short-term rental and home sharing business at city, state and country levels. While a number of cities and countries have implemented legislation to address short-term rentals, there are many others that are not yet explicitly addressing or enforcing short-term rental laws, and could follow suit and enact regulations. New laws, regulations, government policies, or changes in their interpretations in the approximately 100,000 cities where we operate entail significant challenges and uncertainties. In the event of any such changes, pre-existing bookings may not be honored and current and future listings and bookings could decline significantly, and our relationship with our hosts and guests could be negatively impacted. We seek to work with governments to establish clear, fair, and workable home sharing rules to create clarity for our hosts.
No single city represented more than 1.1% of our revenue before adjustments for incentives and refunds during the year ended December 31, 2020 or 1.2% of our active listings as of December 31, 2020. Incentives include our referral programs and marketing promotions to encourage the use of our platform and attract new customers, while our refunds to customers are part of our customer support activities. We do not believe that the current regulations in our top 10 cities, in the aggregate, have had or are expected to have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We will continue to collaborate with policymakers to implement sensible legislation around the world.
In addition to laws, regulations, and rules directly applicable to the short-term rental and home sharing business, we are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations and rules governing our business practices, the Internet, e-commerce, and electronic devices, including those relating to taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, advertising, discrimination, consumer protection, protection of minors, copyrights, distribution, messaging, mobile communications, electronic device certification, electronic waste, electronic contracts, communications, Internet access, competition, and unfair commercial practices. We are also subject to laws, regulations, and rules governing the provision of online payment services, the design and operation of our platform, and the operations, characteristics, and quality of our platform and services.
Our payments platform is subject to various laws, rules, regulations, policies, legal interpretations, and regulatory guidance, including those governing: cross-border and domestic money transmission and funds transfers; stored value and prepaid access; foreign exchange; privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity; banking secrecy; payment services (including payment processing and settlement services); consumer protection; economic and trade sanctions; anti-corruption and anti-bribery; and anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing.
We are subject to a variety of taxes and tax collection obligations in the United States (federal, state, and local) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We have received communications from numerous foreign, federal, state, and local governments regarding the application of tax laws or regulations to our business or demanding data about our hosts and guests to aid in threatened or actual enforcement actions against our hosts and guests. In many jurisdictions where applicable, we have agreed to collect and remit various taxes on behalf of our
hosts. We have been subject to complaints by, and are involved in a number of lawsuits brought by, certain government entities for alleged responsibility for direct or indirect taxes. In some jurisdictions we are in disputes with respect to past and future taxes. A number of jurisdictions have proposed or implemented new tax laws or interpreted existing laws to explicitly apply various types of taxes to businesses like ours. Laws and regulations relating to taxes as applied to our platform, and to our hosts and guests, vary greatly among jurisdictions, and it is difficult or impossible to predict how such laws and regulations will be applied.
As we continue to expand the reach of our brand into additional markets, we will be increasingly subject to additional laws, regulations, and rules. These laws, regulations, and rules are complex and constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. Some of these laws, regulations, and rules are inconsistent and ambiguous and are being tested in courts, and could be interpreted by regulators and courts in ways that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Moreover, certain laws, regulations, and rules have not historically been applied in the context of the short-term rental and home sharing business, so the application and interpretation of these requirements are often uncertain.
For additional information regarding these and other laws, regulations, and rules that affect us and our business, see Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies - Legal and Regulatory Matters - Regulatory Matters to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Part I, Item 1A.
section_1A: Item 1A. Risk Factors
Our business, operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and the trading price of our Class A common stock. The following material factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical results and those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors, and oral statements.
Risks Related to Our Business
The COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of actions to mitigate the COVID-19 pandemic have materially adversely impacted and will continue to materially adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of COVID-19 a pandemic. In an attempt to limit the spread of the virus, governments have imposed various restrictions, including emergency declarations at the federal, state, and local levels, school and business closings, quarantines, “shelter at home” orders, restrictions on travel, limitations on social or public gatherings, and other social distancing measures, which have had and may continue to have a material adverse impact on our business and operations and on travel behavior and demand.
The COVID-19 pandemic, which has required and may continue to require cost reduction measures, has materially adversely affected our near-term operating and financial results and will continue to materially adversely impact our long-term operating and financial results. During the fourth quarter of 2020, another wave of COVID-19 infections emerged. As a result, countries imposed strict lockdowns, in particular in Europe. Similar to the impact of the initial COVID-19 wave in March 2020, we are seeing a decrease in bookings in the most affected regions and saw a significantly greater year-over-year decline in Nights and Experiences Booked and GBV in the fourth quarter of 2020 than in the third quarter of 2020. In light of the evolving nature of COVID-19 and the uncertainty it has produced around the world, we do not believe it is possible to predict the COVID-19 pandemic’s cumulative and ultimate impact on our future business, results of operations, and financial condition. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and financial results will depend largely on future developments, including the duration and extent of the spread of COVID-19 both globally and within the United States, the prevalence of local, national, and international travel restrictions, significantly reduced flight volume, the impact on capital and financial markets and on the U.S. and global economies, foreign currencies exchange, and governmental or regulatory orders that impact our business, all of which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. Moreover, even after shelter-in-place orders and travel advisories are lifted, demand for our offerings, particularly those related to cross-border travel, may remain depressed for a significant length of time, and we cannot predict if and when demand will return to pre-COVID-19 levels. In addition, we cannot predict the impact the COVID-19 pandemic has had and will have on our business partners and third-party vendors and service providers, and we may continue to be materially adversely impacted as a result of the material adverse impact our business partners and third-party vendors suffer now and in the future. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic continues to materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in these “Risk Factors” or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the foregoing factors, or other cascading effects of the COVID-19 pandemic that are not currently foreseeable, will materially adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
In response to the economic challenges and uncertainty resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business, in May 2020, we announced a reduction in our workforce of approximately 1,800 employees. This reduction in workforce particularly impacted our marketing, design, customer service, transportation, Airbnb Studios, Hotels, and Airbnb Luxe teams. This reduction in workforce also resulted in the loss of institutional knowledge, relationships, and expertise for critical roles, which may not have been effectively transferred to continuing employees and may divert attention from operating our business, create personnel capacity constraints, and hamper our ability to grow, develop innovative products, and compete. Any of these impacts could materially adversely impact our business and reputation and impede our ability to operate or meet strategic objectives. This has led to increased attrition and could lead to reduced employee morale and productivity and problems retaining existing and recruiting future employees, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The reduction in force and other restructuring activities resulted in a charge of $151.4 million in 2020.