When we are required to disclose personal data pursuant to demands from government agencies, including tax authorities, state and city regulators, law enforcement agencies, and intelligence agencies, our hosts, guests, and privacy regulators could perceive such disclosure as a failure by us to comply with privacy and data protection policies, notices, and laws, which could result in proceedings or actions against us in the same or other jurisdictions. Conversely, if we do not provide the requested information to government agencies due to a disagreement on the interpretation of the law, we are likely to face enforcement action from such government, engage in litigation, face increased regulatory scrutiny, and experience an adverse impact on our relationship with governments or our ability to offer our services within certain jurisdictions. Any of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our brand, reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition.
Our business also increasingly relies on artificial intelligence and automated decision making to improve our services and tailor our interactions with our customers. However, in recent years use of these methods has come under increased regulatory scrutiny. New laws, guidance and/or decisions in this area may limit our ability to use our artificial intelligence models, or require us to make changes to our operations that may decrease our operational efficiency, result in an increase to operating costs and/or hinder our ability to improve our services. For example, there are specific rules on the use of automated decision making under the GDPR that require the existence of automated decision making to be disclosed to the data subject with a meaningful explanation of the logic used in such decision making in certain circumstances, and safeguards must be implemented to safeguard individual rights, including the right to obtain human intervention and to contest any decision. Further, California recently introduced a law requiring disclosure of chatbot functionality.
Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with privacy and data protection policies, enforcement notices and/or assessment notices (for a compulsory audit), laws, rules, and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by individuals, consumer rights groups, government agencies, or others. We may also face civil claims including representative actions and other class action type litigation (where individuals have suffered harm), potentially amounting to significant compensation or damages liabilities, as well as associated costs, and diversion of internal resources. We could incur significant costs in investigating and defending such claims and, if found liable, pay significant damages or fines or be required to make changes to our business. Further, these proceedings and any subsequent adverse outcomes may subject us to significant negative publicity, and an erosion of trust. If any of these events were to occur, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.
If we fail to prevent data security breaches, there may be damage to our brand and reputation, material financial penalties, and legal liability, along with a decline in use of our platform, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
There are risks of security breaches both on and off our systems as we increase the types of technology we use to operate our platform, including mobile apps and third-party payment processing providers, and as we collaborate with third parties that may need to process our host or guest data or have access to our infrastructure. The evolution of technology systems introduces ever more complex security risks that are difficult to predict and defend against. An increasing number of companies, including those with significant online operations, have recently disclosed breaches of their security, some of which involved sophisticated tactics and techniques allegedly attributable to criminal enterprises or nation-state actors. While we take significant measures to guard against the type of activity that can lead to data breaches, the techniques used by bad actors to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and
often are unknown until launched against a target. As such, we may be unable to anticipate these tactics and techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.
Further, with a large geographically disparate employee base, we are not immune from the possibility of a malicious insider compromising our information systems and infrastructure. This risk has grown in light of the greater adoption of remote work as a response to the COVID-19 pandemic. We also have a distributed community support organization including third-party providers that have access to personal information. We and other companies in our industry have dealt with incidents involving such insiders exfiltrating the personal data of customers, stealing corporate trade secrets and key financial metrics, and illegally diverting funds. No series of measures can fully safeguard against a sufficiently determined and skilled insider threat.
In addition, bad actors have targeted and will continue to target our hosts and guests directly with attempts to breach the security of their email accounts or management systems, such as through phishing attacks where a third party attempts to infiltrate our systems or acquire information by posing as a legitimate inquiry or electronic communication, which are fraudulent identity theft schemes designed to appear as legitimate emails from us or from our hosts or guests, partners, or vendors. We have seen many instances of our hosts and guests falling prey to such schemes, which result in their accounts being taken over by fraudsters intent on perpetrating fraud against them, other users, and our platform. Bad actors may also employ other schemes aimed at defrauding our hosts or guests in ways that we may not anticipate or be able to adequately guard against. Even if phishing and spamming attacks and other fraud schemes are not carried out through our systems, victims may nevertheless seek recovery from us. Because of our prominence, we believe that we are a particularly attractive target for such attacks. Though it is difficult to determine what, if any, harm may directly result from any specific scheme or attack, any failure to maintain performance, reliability, security, and availability of our offerings, services, and technical infrastructure to the satisfaction of our hosts and guests may harm our reputation and our ability to retain existing hosts and guests and attract new hosts and guests. The ability of fraudsters to directly target our hosts and guests with fraudulent communications, or cause an account takeover, exposes us to significant financial fraud risk, including costly litigation, which is difficult to fully mitigate.
Generally, our practice is to encrypt certain sensitive data when it is in transit and at rest. However, we do not know whether our current practice will be deemed sufficient under applicable laws or whether new regulatory requirements might make our current practice insufficient. Moreover, the existence of encryption, in-and-of itself, is not a completely perfect security solution. If there is a breach of our computer systems and we know or suspect that certain personal data has been exfiltrated, accessed, or used inappropriately, we may need to inform the host or guest whose data was stolen, accessed, or used, and may be subject to significant fines and penalties. Further, under certain regulatory schemes, such as the CCPA, we may be liable for statutory damages on a per breached record basis, irrespective of any actual damages or harm to the individual. This means that in the event of a breach we could face government scrutiny or consumer class actions alleging statutory damages amounting to hundreds of millions, and possibly billions of dollars.
Our information technology infrastructure may be vulnerable to computer viruses or physical or electronic intrusions that our security measures may not detect. We have experienced security incidents in the past, and we may face additional attempted security intrusions in the future. Any circumvention of our security measures could result in the misappropriation of confidential or proprietary information, interrupt our operations, result in financial loss, damage our computers or those of our hosts and guests, or otherwise cause damage to our reputation and business. Further, the ability to bypass our information security controls could degrade our trust and safety programs, which could expose individuals to a risk of physical harm or violence.
We rely on third-party service providers, including financial institutions, to process some of our data and that of our hosts and guests, including payment information, and any failure by such third parties to prevent or mitigate security breaches or improper access to, or disclosure of, such information could have adverse consequences for us similar to an incident directly on our systems.
We have acquired and will continue to acquire companies that are vulnerable to security breaches, and we are responsible for any security breaches of these newly acquired companies. While we conduct due diligence of these companies, we do not have access to the full operating history of the companies and cannot be certain there have not been security breaches prior to our acquisition.
We expend, and expect to continue to expend, significant resources to protect against security related incidents and address problems caused by such incidents. Even if we were to expend more resources, regulators and complainants may not deem our efforts sufficient, and regardless of the expenditure, the risk of security related incidents cannot be fully mitigated. We have a heightened risk of security breaches due to some of our operations being located in certain international jurisdictions. Any actual or alleged security breaches or alleged violations of federal, state, or foreign laws or regulations relating to privacy and data security could result in mandated user notifications, litigation, government investigations, significant fines, and expenditures; divert management’s attention from operations; deter people from using our platform; damage our brand and reputation; force us to cease operations for some length of time; and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Defending against claims or litigation based on any security breach or incident, regardless of their merit, will be costly and may cause reputation harm. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, denial of coverage as to any specific claim, or any change or cessation in our insurance policies and coverages, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
Our platform is highly complex, and any undetected errors could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
Our platform is a complex system composed of many interoperating components and software. Our business is dependent upon our ability to prevent system interruption on our platform and to effectively implement updates to our systems. Our software, including open source software that is incorporated into our code, may now or in the future contain undetected errors, bugs, or vulnerabilities. Some errors in our software code have not been and may not be discovered until after the code has been released. We have, from time to time, found defects or errors in our system and software limitations that have resulted in, and may discover additional issues in the future that could result in, platform unavailability or system disruption, or the inability of our systems to implement timely updates that are required for regulatory compliance. For example, defects or errors have resulted in and could result in the delay in making payments to hosts or overpaying or