While we seek to work with governments, we have in the past, and are likely in the future to, become involved in disputes with government agencies regarding such laws and regulations. For example, some governments have attempted to impose fines on us regarding what they contend is illegal offering of short-term accommodations in violation of applicable laws. Certain jurisdictions have adopted laws and regulations that seek to impose various types of taxes, including lodging taxes, often known as transient or occupancy taxes, on our guests, collection and remittance obligations on our hosts and/or us, and withholding obligations on us, as more fully described in our risk factor titled “- Uncertainty in the application of taxes to our hosts, guests, or platform could increase our tax liabilities and may discourage hosts and guests from conducting business on our platform.” In addition, some third parties and regulators have asserted that we, through our operations, are subject to regulations with respect to short-term rentals, host registration, licensing, and other requirements for the listing of accommodations and experiences, such as real estate broker or agent licenses, travel agency licenses, and insurance-related licenses. We could be held liable and incur significant financial and potential criminal penalties if we are found to have violated any of these regulations. In certain jurisdictions, we have resolved disputes concerning the application of these laws and regulations by agreeing, among other things, to share certain data with government agencies to assist in the enforcement of limits on short-term rentals as well as the enforcement of safety regulations, and to implement measures to confirm to the government that hosts are operating in compliance with applicable law. When a government agency seeks to apply laws and regulations in a manner that limits or curtails hosts’ or guests’ ability or willingness to list and search for accommodations in that particular geography, we have attempted and may continue to attempt through litigation or other means to defend against such application of laws and regulations, but have sometimes been and may continue to be unsuccessful in certain of those efforts. Further, if we or our hosts and guests were required to comply with laws and regulations, government requests, or
agreements with government agencies that adversely impact our relations with hosts and guests, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Moreover, if we enter an agreement with a government or governmental agency to resolve a dispute, the terms of such agreement will likely be publicly available and could create a precedent that may put us in a weaker bargaining position in future disputes with other governments.
We are subject to a wide variety of complex, evolving, and sometimes inconsistent and ambiguous laws and regulations that may adversely impact our operations and discourage hosts and guests from using our platform, and that could cause us to incur significant liabilities including fines and criminal penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
Hosts list, and guests search for, stays and experiences on our platform in more than 220 countries and regions, and in approximately 100,000 cities throughout the world. There are national, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations in jurisdictions that relate to or affect our business. Moreover, the laws and regulations of each jurisdiction in which we operate are distinct and may result in inconsistent or ambiguous interpretations among local, regional, or national laws or regulations applicable to our business. Compliance with laws and regulations of different jurisdictions imposing varying standards and requirements is burdensome for businesses like ours, imposes added cost and increases potential liability to our business, and makes it difficult to realize business efficiencies and economies of scale. For example, we incur significant operational costs to comply with requirements of jurisdictions and cities that have disparate requirements around tax collection, tax reporting, host registration, limits on lengths of stays, and other regulations, each of which require us to dedicate significant resources to provide the infrastructure and tools needed on our platform for our hosts to meet these legal requirements and for us to fulfill any obligations we may have. The complexity of our platform and changes required to comply with the large number of disparate requirements can lead to compliance gaps if our internal resources cannot keep up with the pace of regulatory change and new requirements imposed on our platform, or if our platform does not work as intended or has errors or bugs.
It may be difficult or impossible for us to investigate or evaluate laws or regulations in all cities, countries, and regions. The application of existing laws and regulations to our business and platform can be unclear and may be difficult for hosts, guests, and us to understand and apply, and are subject to change, as governments or government agencies seek to apply legacy systems of laws or adopt new laws to new online business models in the travel and accommodations industries, including ours. Uncertain and unclear application of such laws and regulations to host and guest activity and our platform could cause and has caused some hosts and guests to leave or choose not to use our platform, reduce supply and demand for our platform and services, increase the costs of compliance with such laws and regulations, and increase the threat of litigation or enforcement actions related to our platform, all of which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. See also our risk factor titled “- We could face liability for information or content on or accessible through our platform.”
There are laws that apply to us, and there are laws that apply to our hosts and/or guests. While we require our hosts and guests to comply with their own independent legal obligations under our terms of service, we have limited means of enforcing or ensuring the compliance of our hosts and guests with all applicable legal requirements. Sometimes governments try to hold us responsible for laws that apply to our hosts and/or guests. Whether applicable to us, our hosts, and/or our guests, the related consequences arising out of such laws and regulations, including penalties for violations of and costs to maintain compliance with such laws and regulations, have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition.
We take certain measures to comply, and to help hosts comply, with laws and regulations, such as requiring registration numbers to be displayed on a listing profile for listings in some jurisdictions where such registration is required. These measures, changes to them, and any future measures we adopt could increase friction on our platform, and reduce the number of listings available on our platform from hosts and bookings by guests, and could reduce the activity of hosts and guests on our platform. We may be subject to additional laws and regulations which could require significant changes to our platform that discourage hosts and guests from using our platform. Our newer offerings, such as Airbnb Experiences, are subject to similar or other laws, regulations, and regulatory actions. In particular, if we become more involved in hosts’ listings and conduct related to bookings, then we are more likely to draw scrutiny and additional regulations from governments and undercut various defenses we may have to claims or attempts to regulate us, which further constrain our business and impose additional liability on us as a platform.
In addition to laws and regulations directly applicable to the short-term rental and home sharing business as discussed in our risk factor titled “- Laws, regulations, and rules that affect the short-term rental and home sharing business have limited and may continue to limit the ability or willingness of hosts to share their spaces over our platform and expose our hosts or us to significant penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition,” we are subject to laws and regulations governing our business practices, the Internet, e-commerce, and electronic devices, including those relating to taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, advertising, discrimination, consumer protection, protection of minors, copyrights, distribution, messaging, mobile communications, electronic device certification, electronic waste, electronic contracts, communications, Internet access, competition, and unfair commercial practices. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing the provision of online payment services and insurance services, the design and operation of our platform, and the operations, characteristics, and quality of our platform and services.
We are also subject to federal, state, local, and foreign laws regulating employment, employee working conditions, including wage and hour laws, employment dispute and employee bargaining processes, collective and representative actions, employment classification, and other employment compliance requirements.
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, many jurisdictions have also adopted laws, rules, regulations, and/or decrees intended to address the COVID-19 pandemic, including implementing travel restrictions or restricting access to city centers or limiting accommodation offerings in surrounding areas. In addition, many jurisdictions have limited social mobility and gatherings. As the COVID-19 pandemic develops, governments, corporations, and other authorities may continue to implement restrictions or policies that could further restrict the ability of our hosts and guests to participate on our platform.
There is increased governmental interest in regulating technology companies in areas including privacy, tax, data localization and data access, algorithm-based discrimination, and competition. In addition, climate change and greater emphasis on sustainability could lead to regulatory efforts to address the carbon impact of housing and travel. As a result, governments may enact new laws and regulations and/or view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past, and in a manner that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We incur significant expenses and commit significant resources to maintain our platform in compliance with laws and regulations; however, there is no assurance that we will be able to fully implement technical upgrades and other system implementations in a timely manner since implementations often involve building new infrastructure and tools, which contain the inherent risk of unplanned errors and defects.
Any new or existing laws and regulations applicable to existing or future business areas, including amendments to or repeal of existing laws and regulations, or new interpretations, applications, or enforcement of existing laws and regulations, could expose us to substantial liability, including significant expenses necessary to comply with such laws and regulations, and materially adversely impact bookings on our platform, thereby materially adversely affecting our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For example, the laws and regulations that impact our United Kingdom and European Union operations, including payment processing, privacy and data protection, legal protection for platforms, workers’ rights, and intellectual property, will change after the end of the transitional period following the United Kingdom’s departure from the European Union. In addition, the European Union’s new Platform to Business Regulation, which came into effect in July 2020, required us to make updates to the terms that apply to our business customers, introduce new dispute resolution procedures with business customers, and make changes to our community support operations. Furthermore, some of our hosts or some of our offerings may now or in the future be subject to the European Package Travel Directive, which imposes various obligations upon package providers and upon marketers of travel packages, such as disclosure obligations to consumers and liability to consumers. Our efforts to influence legislative and regulatory proposals have an uncertain chance of success, could be limited by laws regulating lobbying or advocacy activity in certain jurisdictions, and even if successful, could be expensive and time consuming, and could divert the attention of management from operations.
We are subject to regulatory inquiries, litigation, and other disputes, which have materially adversely affected and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.