Our new offerings and initiatives have a high degree of risk, as they may involve unproven businesses with which we have limited or no prior development or operating experience. There can be no assurance that consumer demand for such offerings and initiatives will exist or be sustained at the levels that we anticipate, that we will be able to successfully manage the development and delivery of such offerings and initiatives, or that any of these offerings or initiatives will gain sufficient market acceptance to generate sufficient revenue to offset associated expenses or liabilities. It is also possible that offerings developed by others will render our offerings and initiatives noncompetitive or obsolete. Further, these efforts entail investments in our systems and infrastructure, payments platform, and increased legal and regulatory compliance expenses, could distract management from current operations, and will divert capital and other resources
from our more established offerings and geographies. Even if we are successful in developing new offerings and initiatives, regulatory authorities may subject us or our hosts and guests to new rules, taxes, or restrictions or more aggressively enforce existing rules, taxes, or restrictions, that could increase our expenses or prevent us from successfully commercializing these initiatives. If we do not realize the expected benefits of our investments, we may fail to grow and our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected.
If we fail to comply with federal, state, and foreign laws relating to privacy and data protection, we may face potentially significant liability, negative publicity, an erosion of trust, and increased regulation could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
Privacy and data protection laws, rules, and regulations are complex, and their interpretation is rapidly evolving, making implementation and enforcement, and thus compliance requirements, ambiguous, uncertain, and potentially inconsistent. Compliance with such laws may require changes to our data collection, use, transfer, disclosure, other processing, and certain other related business practices and may thereby increase compliance costs or have other material adverse effects on our business. As part of host and guest registration and business processes, we collect and use personal data, such as names, dates of birth, email addresses, phone numbers, and identity verification information (for example, government issued identification or passport), as well as credit card or other financial information that hosts and guests provide to us. The laws of many states and countries require businesses that maintain such personal data to implement reasonable measures to keep such information secure and otherwise restrict the ways in which such information can be collected and used.
For example, the GDPR, which became effective on May 25, 2018, has resulted and will continue to result in significantly greater compliance burdens and costs for companies like ours. The GDPR regulates our collection, control, processing, sharing, disclosure, and other use of data that can directly or indirectly identify a living individual (“personal data”), and imposes stringent data protection requirements with significant penalties, and the risk of civil litigation, for noncompliance.
Failure to comply with the GDPR may result in fines of up to 20 million Euros or up to 4% of the annual global revenue of the infringer, whichever is greater. It may also lead to civil litigation, with the risks of damages or injunctive relief, or regulatory orders adversely impacting on the ways in which our business can use personal data. Many large geographies, which are important to our success, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, and India, have passed or are in the process of passing comparable or other robust data privacy legislation or regulation, which may lead to additional costs and increase our overall risk exposure.
In addition, from January 1, 2021 (when the transitional period following Brexit expired), we are subject to the GDPR and also the UK GDPR, both regimes having the ability to fine up to the greater of 20 million Euros (17 million British Pounds) or 4% of global turnover, respectively. The relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union in relation to certain aspects of data protection law remains unclear, for example, how data transfers between EU member states and the United Kingdom will be treated and the role of the United Kingdom’s Information Commissioner’s Office with respect to the European Union. Currently there is a four to six-month grace period agreed in the European Union and UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement, ending June 30, 2021 at the latest, while the parties discuss an adequacy decision. However, it is not clear whether (and when) an adequacy decision may be granted by the European Commission enabling data transfers from European Union member states to the United Kingdom long term without additional measures. These changes will lead to additional costs and increase our overall risk exposure.
Additionally, we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations regarding cross-border transfers of personal data, including laws relating to transfer of personal data outside the European Economic Area (“EEA”). Recent legal developments in Europe have created complexity and uncertainty regarding transfers of personal data from the EEA to the United States and other jurisdictions; for example, on July 16, 2020, the CJEU invalidated the EU-US Privacy Shield Framework (“Privacy Shield”) under which personal data could be transferred from the EEA to US entities that had self-certified under the Privacy Shield scheme. While the CJEU upheld the adequacy of the standard contractual clauses (a standard form of contract approved by the European Commission as an adequate personal data transfer mechanism, and potential alternative to the Privacy Shield), it noted that reliance on them alone may not necessarily be sufficient in all circumstances; this has created uncertainty and increased the risk around our international operations.
In addition to other mechanisms (particularly standard contractual clauses), we previously relied on our own Privacy Shield certification and, in limited instances, the Privacy Shield certifications of third parties (for example, vendors and partners) for the purposes of transferring personal data from the EEA to the United States. We continue to rely on the standard contractual clauses to transfer personal data outside the EEA, including to the United States. Additionally, in certain circumstances, we rely on derogations provided for by law. These recent developments may require us to review and amend the legal mechanisms by which we make and, or, receive personal data transfers to the United States and other jurisdictions. As our lead supervisory authorities (the Irish Data Protection Commission, the Luxembourg National Commission for Data Protection and, until the end of 2020, the British ICO), the European Data Protection Board, and other data protection regulators issue further guidance on personal data export mechanisms, including circumstances where the standard contractual clauses cannot be used, and/or start taking enforcement action, we could suffer additional costs, complaints and/or regulatory investigations or fines, and/or if we are otherwise unable to transfer personal data between and among countries and regions in which we operate, it could affect the manner in which we provide our services, the geographical location or segregation of our relevant systems and operations, and could adversely affect our financial results.
In the United States, federal law, such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (“GLBA”) and its implementing regulations, restricts certain collection, processing, storage, use, and disclosure of personal information, requires notice to individuals of privacy practices and provides individuals with certain rights to prevent the use and disclosure of certain nonpublic or otherwise legally protected information. These rules also impose requirements for the safeguarding and proper destruction of personal information through the issuance of data security standards or guidelines. The U.S. government, including Congress, the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Commerce, has announced that it is reviewing the need for greater regulation for the collection of information concerning consumer behavior on the Internet, including regulation aimed at restricting certain targeted advertising practices. Numerous states have enacted or are in the process of enacting state level data privacy laws and regulations governing the collection, use, and processing of state residents’ personal
data. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”) took effect on January 1, 2020. The CCPA establishes a new privacy framework for covered businesses such as ours, and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and incur compliance related costs and expenses. The CCPA provides new and enhanced data privacy rights to California residents, such as affording consumers the right to access and delete their information and to opt out of certain sharing and sales of personal information. The law also prohibits covered businesses from discriminating against consumers (for example, charging more for services) for exercising any of their CCPA rights. The CCPA imposes severe statutory damages as well as a private right of action for certain data breaches that result in the loss of personal information. This private right of action is expected to increase the likelihood of, and risks associated with, data breach litigation. It remains unclear how various provisions of the CCPA will be interpreted and enforced. In November 2020, California voters passed the California Privacy Rights and Enforcement Act of 2020 (“CPRA”). The CPRA further expands the CCPA with additional data privacy compliance requirements that may impact our business, and establishes a regulatory agency dedicated to enforcing those requirements. The CPRA and the CCPA may lead other states to pass comparable legislation, with potentially greater penalties, and more rigorous compliance requirements relevant to our business. The effects of the CPRA, the CCPA, and other similar state or federal laws, are significant and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and potential liability in an effort to comply with such legislation.
Various other governments and consumer agencies around the world have also called for new regulation and changes in industry practices and many have enacted different and often contradictory requirements for protecting personal information collected and maintained electronically. Compliance with numerous and contradictory requirements of different jurisdictions is particularly difficult and costly for an online business such as ours, which collects personal information from hosts, guests, and other individuals in multiple jurisdictions. If any jurisdiction in which we operate adopts news laws or changes its interpretation of its laws, rules, or regulations relating to data residency or localization such that we are unable to comply in a timely manner or at all, we could risk losing our rights to operate in such jurisdictions. While we have invested and continue to invest significant resources to comply with GDPR, GLBA, CCPA, and other privacy regulations around the world, many of these regulations expose us to the possibility of material penalties, significant legal liability, changes in how we operate or offer our products, and interruptions or cessation of our ability to operate in key geographies, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
Furthermore, to improve the trust and safety on our platform, we conduct certain verification procedures aimed at our hosts, guests, and listings in certain jurisdictions. Such verification procedures may include utilizing public information on the Internet, accessing public databases such as court records, utilizing third-party vendors to analyze host or guest data, or physical inspection. These types of activities may expose us to the risk of regulatory enforcement from privacy regulators and civil litigation.