We are subject to consumer protection laws and regulations in the U.S. states and countries from which we provide payment services. In the United States, the Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”), which is empowered to conduct rulemaking and supervision related to, and enforcement of, federal consumer financial protection laws. We are subject to a number of such federal consumer financial protection laws and regulations, as well as related state consumer protection laws and regulations, including the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and Regulation E as implemented by the CFPB. Money transmitters such as Airbnb Payments are subject to direct supervision and periodic examination by the CFPB and are required to provide advance disclosure of changes to our services, follow specified error resolution procedures, and reimburse consumers for losses from certain transactions not authorized by the consumer,
among other requirements. In addition, the CFPB may adopt other regulations governing consumer financial services, including regulations defining unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices, and new model disclosures.
We could be subject to fines or other penalties if we are found to have violated the Dodd-Frank Act’s prohibition against unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices or other consumer financial protection laws enforced by the CFPB or other agencies. The CFPB’s authority to change regulations adopted in the past by other regulators could increase our compliance costs and litigation exposure. Additionally, technical violations of consumer protection laws could result in the assessment of actual damages or statutory damages or penalties, including plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees. The Dodd-Frank Act also empowers state attorneys general and other state officials to enforce federal consumer protection laws under specified conditions. Various government offices and agencies, including various state agencies and state attorneys general (as well as the CFPB and the U.S. Department of Justice), have the authority to conduct reviews, investigations, and proceedings (both formal and informal) involving us or our subsidiaries. These examinations, inquiries and proceedings could result in, among other things, substantial fines, penalties or changes in business practices that may require us to incur substantial costs.
We provide payment services that may be subject to various U.S. state and federal privacy laws and regulations. Relevant federal privacy laws include the GLBA, which (along with its implementing regulations) restricts certain collection, processing, storage, use, and disclosure of personal information, requires notice to individuals of privacy practices, and provides individuals with certain rights to prevent the use and disclosure of certain nonpublic or otherwise legally protected information. These rules also impose requirements for the safeguarding and proper destruction of personal information through the issuance of data security standards or guidelines. See our risk factor titled “- If we fail to comply with federal, state, and foreign laws relating to privacy and data protection, we may face potentially significant liability, negative publicity, an erosion of trust, and increased regulation could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.”
In addition to United Kingdom and Luxembourg payments-related consumer protection laws that are applicable to our business, regulators in European Union member states could notify APUK and APLux of local consumer protection laws that apply to our businesses, and could also seek to persuade the United Kingdom and Luxembourg regulators to order APUK or APLux to conduct their activities in the local country directly or through a branch office. These or similar actions by these regulators could increase the cost of, or delay, our plans to expand our business in European Union countries.
Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing
We are subject to various anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations around the world, including the BSA. Among other things, the BSA requires money services businesses (including money transmitters such as Airbnb Payments) to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, report large cash transactions and suspicious activity, and maintain transaction records. The BSA prohibits, among other things, our involvement in transferring the proceeds of criminal activities. In connection with and when required by regulatory requirements, we make information available to certain U.S. federal and state, as well as certain foreign, government agencies to assist in the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing, and other illegal activities and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations. In certain circumstances, we may be required by government agencies to deny transactions that may be related to persons suspected of money laundering, terrorist financing, or other illegal activities, and it is possible that we may inadvertently deny transactions from customers who are making legal money transfers. Regulators in the United States and globally may require us to further revise or expand our compliance program, including the procedures we use to verify the identity of our customers and to monitor international and domestic transactions. In the European Union, the implementation of the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive (“MLD4”) may make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage, lead to increased friction for customers, and result in a decrease in business. Penalties for non-compliance with MLD4 could include fines of up to 10% of APUK’s or APLux’s total annual turnover. In April 2018, the European Parliament adopted the European Commission’s proposal for a Fifth Anti-Money Laundering Directive (“MLD5”), containing more stringent provisions in certain areas, which will increase compliance costs. In July 2019, the UK Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) called on UK electronic money institutions to review their compliance with the requirements on safeguarding of customer funds and to notify the FCA in the event they identified any material non-compliance. APUK notified the FCA that it had identified gaps in its compliance and was undertaking remedial action. The FCA, in turn, appointed a third-party skilled person to perform a review of APUK’s safeguarding systems and controls, in accordance with Section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (as amended) and all required actions identified by the skilled person were completed. The FCA closed the skilled persons review in August 2020. As part of its review, the skilled person also identified certain issues with APUK’s anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing systems and controls. In August 2020, APUK submitted a gap analysis to the FCA of its compliance with the UK’s implementation of MLD4 and MLD5, which identified in-progress remedial action. To date, APUK has received no correspondence related to this gap analysis from the FCA.
We are subject to governmental economic and trade sanctions laws and regulations that limit the scope of our offering. Additionally, failure to comply with applicable economic and trade sanctions laws and regulations could subject us to liability and negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
We are required to comply with economic and trade sanctions administered by governments where we operate, including the U.S. government (including without limitation regulations administered and enforced by OFAC and the U.S. Department of State), the Council of the European Union, the Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation of Her Majesty’s Treasury in the United Kingdom (“OFSI”) and the Ministry of Finance and Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier of Luxembourg. These economic and trade sanctions prohibit or restrict transactions to or from or dealings with certain specified countries, regions, their governments and, in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially-designated, such as individuals and entities included on OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals (“SDN List”), subject to EU/UK asset freezes, or other sanctions measures. Any future economic and trade sanctions imposed in jurisdictions where we have significant business could materially adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our ability to track and verify transactions and otherwise to comply with these regulations require a high level of internal controls. We maintain policies and procedures to implement these internal controls, which we periodically assess and update to the extent we identify compliance gaps. We routinely report to OFAC on payments we have rejected or blocked pursuant to OFAC sanctions regulations and on any possible violations of those regulations. We have also reported to OFSI on dealings with persons subject to EU/UK
sanctions. There is a risk that, despite the internal controls that we have in place, we have engaged in dealings with persons sanctioned under applicable sanctions laws. Any non-compliance with economic and trade sanctions laws and regulations or related investigations could result in claims or actions against us and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. As our business continues to grow and regulations change, we may be required to make additional investments in our internal controls or modify our business.
Beginning in July 2019, we conducted an internal review and have been holding related discussions with OFAC regarding certain user activity on our platform that may have been inconsistent with our policies and the requirements of U.S. sanctions laws. The scope of this review included activity by users in certain countries and territories that were or are the target of U.S. sanctions laws. In July 2020, OFAC issued to us a cautionary letter and no administrative penalty with respect to certain aspects of that review concerning the Crimea region of Ukraine. The internal review also covered certain other issues concerning our compliance with OFAC’s sanctions program, focusing in particular on our business in Cuba, and as to our compliance with restrictions on transactions with specially designated nationals. We submitted the results of that internal review in final Voluntary Self Disclosures to OFAC in September 2020. In October 2020, OFAC issued to us cautionary letters and a no action letter, and no administrative penalties, with respect to the disclosed matters involving specially designated nationals. OFAC’s review of our voluntary self disclosure regarding Cuba is ongoing and we remain in close contact with OFAC. Depending upon OFAC’s assessment of the Cuba review, we could be subject to potentially significant monetary civil penalties and litigation, and our brand and reputation could be materially adversely affected.
We are subject to payment network rules and any material modification of our payment card acceptance privileges could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.