The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”). The Company considers both hosts and guests to be its customers. The customers agree to the Company’s Terms of Service (“ToS”) to use the Company’s platform. Upon confirmation of a booking made by a guest, the host agrees to provide the use of the property. At such time, the host and guest also agree upon the applicable booking value as well as host fees and guest fees (collectively “service fees”). The Company charges service fees in exchange for certain activities, including the use of the Company’s platform, customer support, and payment processing activities. These activities are not distinct from each other and are not separate performance obligations. As a result, the Company’s single performance obligation is to facilitate a stay, which occurs upon the completion of a check-in event (a “check-in”). The Company recognizes revenue upon check-in as its performance obligation is satisfied upon check-in and the Company has the right to receive payment for the fulfillment of the performance obligation.
The Company charges service fees to its customers as a percentage of the value of the booking, excluding taxes. The Company collects both the booking value from the guest on behalf of the host and the applicable guest fees owed to the Company using the guest’s pre-authorized payment method. After check-in, the Company disburses the booking value to the host, less the fees due from the host to the Company. The Company’s ToS stipulates that a host may cancel a confirmed booking at any time up to check-in. Therefore, the Company determined that for accounting purposes, each booking is a separate contract with the host and guest, and the contracts are not enforceable until check-in. Since an enforceable contract for accounting purposes is not established until check-in, there were no partially satisfied or unsatisfied performance obligations as of December 31, 2019 and 2020. The service fees collected from customers prior to check-in are recorded as unearned fees. Unearned fees are not considered contract balances under ASC 606-10-50-8 because they are subject to refund in the event of a cancellation.
Guest stays of at least 28 nights are considered long-term stays. The Company charges service fees to facilitate long-term stays on a monthly basis. Such stays are generally cancelable with a 30 days advance notice for no significant penalty. Accordingly, long-term stays are treated as month-to-month contracts; each month is a separate contract with the host and guest, and the contracts are not enforceable until check-in for the initial month as well as subsequent monthly extensions. The Company’s performance obligation for long-term stays is the same as that for short-term stays. The Company recognizes revenue for the first month upon check-in, similar to short-term stays, and recognizes revenue for any subsequent months upon each month’s anniversary from initial check-in date.
The Company evaluates the presentation of revenue on a gross versus net basis based on whether or not it is the principal (gross) or the agent (net) in the transaction. As part of the evaluation, the Company considers whether it controls the right to use the property before control is transferred. Indicators of control that the Company considers include whether the Company is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise associated with the rental of the property, whether it has inventory risk associated with the property, and whether it has discretion in establishing the prices for the property. The Company determined that it does not control the right to use the properties either before or after completion of its service. Accordingly, the Company has concluded that it is acting in an agent capacity and revenue is presented net reflecting the service fees received from guests and hosts to facilitate a stay.
The Company has elected to recognize the incremental costs of obtaining a contract, including the costs of certain referrer fees, as an expense when incurred as the amortization period of the asset that the Company otherwise would have recognized is one year or less. The Company has no significant financing components in its contracts with customers.
Airbnb, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
The Company has elected to exclude from revenue, taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are both imposed on and are concurrent with specific revenue producing transactions. Accordingly, such amounts are not included as a component of revenue or cost of revenue.
Payments to Customers
The Company makes payments to customers as part of its referral programs and marketing promotions, collectively referred to as the Company’s incentive programs, and refund activities. The payments are generally in the form of coupon credits to be applied toward future bookings or as cash refunds.
Incentive Programs
The Company encourages the use of its platform and attracts new customers through its incentive programs.
Under the Company’s referral program, the referring party (the “referrer”) earns a coupon when the new guest or host (the “referee”) completes their first stay on the Company’s platform. Incentives earned by customers for referring new customers are paid in exchange for a distinct service and are accounted for as customer acquisition costs. The Company records the incentive as a liability at the time the incentive is earned by the referrer with the corresponding charge recorded to sales and marketing expense in the same way the Company accounts for other marketing services from third-party vendors. Any amounts paid in excess of the fair value of the referral service received are recorded as a reduction of revenue. Fair value of the service is established using amounts paid to vendors for similar services. Customer referral coupon credits generally expire within one year from issuance and the Company estimates the redemption rates using its historical experience. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, the referral coupon liability was not material.
Through marketing promotions, the Company issues customer coupon credits to encourage the use of its platform. After a customer redeems such incentives, the Company records a reduction to revenue at the date it records the corresponding revenue transaction, as the Company does not receive a distinct good or service in exchange for the customer incentive payment.
Refunds
In certain instances, the Company issues refunds to customers as part of its customer support activities in the form of cash or credits to be applied toward a future booking. There is no legal obligation to issue such refunds to hosts or guests on behalf of its customers. The Company accounts for refunds, net of any recoveries, as variable consideration, which results in a reduction to revenue. The Company reduces the transaction price by the estimated amount of the payments by applying the most likely outcome method based on known facts and circumstances and historical experience. The estimate for variable consideration was not material as of December 31, 2019 and 2020.
The Company evaluates whether the cumulative amount of payments made to customers that are not in exchange for a distinct good or service received from customers exceeds the cumulative revenue earned since inception of the customer relationships. Any cumulative payments in excess of cumulative revenue are presented within operations and support or sales and marketing on the consolidated statements of operations based on the nature of the payments made to customers.
For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020, payments made to customers resulted in: reductions to revenue of $221.5 million, $274.5 million, and $384.2 million, respectively; charges to operations and support of $68.9 million, $103.4 million, and $83.1 million, respectively; and, charges to sales and marketing expense of $120.2 million, $129.6 million, and $56.7 million, respectively.
Funds Receivable and Funds Payable
Funds receivable and amounts held on behalf of customers represent cash received or in-transit from guests via third-party credit card processors and other payment methods, which flows through a Company bank account for payment to hosts following check-in. This cash and related receivable represent the total amount due to hosts, and as such, a liability for the same amount is recorded to funds payable and amounts payable to customers.
The Company records guest payments, net of service fees, as funds receivable and amounts held on behalf of customers with a corresponding amount in funds payable and amounts payable to customers when cash is received in advance of check-in. Host and guest fees are recorded as cash with a corresponding amount in unearned fees. For certain bookings, a guest may opt to pay a percentage of the total amount due when the booking is confirmed, with the remaining balance due prior to the stay occurring (the “Pay Less Upfront Program”). Under the Pay Less Upfront Program, when the Company receives the first installment payment from the guest upon confirmation of the booking, the Company records the first installment payment as funds receivable and amounts held on behalf of customers with a corresponding amount in funds payable and amounts payable to customers, net of the host and guest fees. The full value of the service fees is recorded as cash and cash equivalents and unearned fees upon receipt of the first installment payment to represent what the Company expects to be recognized as revenue if the underlying booking is not canceled. Upon receipt of the second installment, such payment amounts are also recorded as funds receivable and amounts held on behalf of customers with a corresponding amount in funds payable and amounts payable to customers.
Following check-in, the Company remits funds due to hosts and recognizes unearned fees as revenue as its performance obligation is satisfied.
Bad Debt
The Company generally collects funds related to bookings from guests on behalf of hosts prior to check-in. However, in limited circumstances the Company disburses funds to a host or a guest on behalf of a counterparty guest or host prior to collecting such amounts from the counterparty. Such uncollected balances generally arise from the timing of payments and collections related to a dispute resolution between the guest and host or certain alterations to stays and are included in prepaids and other current assets on the
Airbnb, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
consolidated balance sheets. The Company records a customer receivable allowance for credit losses for funds that may never be collected. The Company estimated its exposure to balances deemed to be uncollectible based on factors including known facts and circumstances, historical experience, and the age of the uncollected balances. Upon adoption of ASU No. 2016-13, the Company estimates its expected credit losses for the customer receivable allowance based on factors including known facts and circumstances, historical experience, reasonable and supportable forecasts of economic conditions, and the age of the uncollected balances. The Company writes off the asset when it is determined to be uncollectible. Bad debt expense was $49.0 million, $77.1 million, and $107.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020, respectively.
Cost of Revenue
Cost of revenue primarily consists of payment processing charges, including merchant fees and chargebacks, costs associated with third-party data centers used to host the Company’s platform, and amortization of internally developed software and acquired technology.
Operations and Support
Operations and support costs primarily consist of personnel-related expenses and third-party service provider fees associated with customer support provided via phone, email, and chat to hosts and guests, customer relations costs, which include refunds and credits related to customer satisfaction and expenses associated with the Company’s host protection programs, and allocated costs for facilities and information technology. These costs are expensed as incurred.
Product Development
Product development costs primarily consist of personnel-related expenses and third-party service provider fees incurred in connection with the development of the Company’s platform and new products as well as the improvement of existing products, and allocated costs for facilities and information technology. These costs are expensed as incurred.
Sales and Marketing