Through December 9, 2020, no stock-based compensation expense had been recognized for certain awards with a liquidity-event performance-based vesting condition based on the occurrence of a qualifying event, as such qualifying event was not probable. Upon the Company's IPO, the liquidity-event performance-based condition was met and $2.8 billion of stock-based compensation expense was recognized related to these awards.
The Company recognized an income tax benefit of $3.6 million, $9.8 million, and $39.9 million in the consolidated statements of operations for stock-based compensation arrangements in the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020, respectively.
Airbnb, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
2020 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
In December 2020, the Company’s board of directors adopted the ESPP. The maximum number of shares of Class A common stock authorized for sale under the ESPP is equal to the sum of (i) 4,000,000 shares of Class A common stock and (ii) an annual increase on the first day of each year beginning in 2022 and ending in 2030, equal to the lesser of (a) 1% of shares of Class A common stock (on an as converted basis) on the last day immediately preceding year and (b) such number of shares of common stock as determined by the board of directors; provided, however, that no more than 89,785,394 shares may be issued under the ESPP. As of December 31, 2020, there were no shares of common stock purchased under the ESPP.
Note 13. Commitments and Contingencies
Commitments
The Company has commitments including purchase obligations for web-hosting services and other commitments for brand marketing. The following table presents these non-cancelable commitments and obligations as of December 31, 2020 (in thousands):
Extenuating Circumstances Policy
In March 2020, the Company applied its extenuating circumstances policy to cancellations resulting from COVID-19. That policy provides hosts and guests with greater flexibility to cancel reservations that are disrupted by epidemics, natural disasters, and other emergencies. Specifically, accommodation bookings made by guests on or before March 14, 2020, have so far been covered by the policy and may be canceled before check-in. To support hosts impacted by elevated guest cancellations under that policy, the Company committed up to $250 million for hosts. The reservations eligible for this $250 million host program were defined as reservations made on or before March 14, 2020 with a check-in date between March 14, 2020 and May 31, 2020. For these reservations, eligible hosts are entitled to receive 25% of the amount they would have received from guests under the host’s cancellation policies. These payments are accounted for as consideration paid to a customer and as such, result in a reduction to revenue. Under this policy, the Company recorded $205.1 million of payments, primarily for hosts, in its consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020.
Lodging Tax Obligations and Other Non-Income Tax Matters
Some states and localities in the United States and elsewhere in the world impose transient occupancy or lodging accommodations taxes (“Lodging Taxes”) on the use or occupancy of lodging accommodations or other traveler services. The Company collects and remits Lodging Taxes in more than 29,800 jurisdictions on behalf of its hosts. Such Lodging Taxes are generally remitted to tax jurisdictions within a 30 to 90-day period following the end of each month.
As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, the Company had an obligation to remit Lodging Taxes collected from guests who had stayed in these jurisdictions totaling $103.7 million and $84.0 million, respectively. These payables were recorded in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.
In jurisdictions where the Company does not collect and remit Lodging Taxes, the responsibility for collecting and remitting these taxes primarily rests with hosts. The Company has estimated liabilities in a certain number of jurisdictions with respect to state, city, and local taxes related to lodging where management believes it is probable that the Company can be held jointly liable with hosts for taxes and the related amounts can be reasonably estimated. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, accrued obligations related to these estimated taxes, including estimated penalties and interest, totaled $138.4 million and $52.9 million, respectively. With respect to lodging and related taxes for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, the Company is unable to determine an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss beyond the amounts already accrued.
The Company’s potential obligations with respect to Lodging Taxes could be affected by various factors, which include, but are not limited to, whether the Company determines, or any tax authority asserts, that the Company has a responsibility to collect lodging and related taxes on either historical or future transactions or by the introduction of new ordinances and taxes which subject the Company’s operations to such taxes. Accordingly, the ultimate resolution of Lodging Taxes may be greater or less than reserve amounts that the Company has recorded.
The Company is currently involved in lawsuits brought by certain states and localities involving the payment of Lodging Taxes. These jurisdictions are asserting that the Company is liable or jointly liable with hosts to collect and remit Lodging Taxes. These lawsuits are in various stages and the Company continues to vigorously defend these claims. The Company believes that the statutes at issue impose a Lodging Tax obligation on the person exercising the taxable privilege of providing accommodations, or the Company’s hosts. In March 2020, a fourth District Court of Appeal affirmed that the Company is not a dealer under the Florida and County Tourist Development Tax Law, and therefore not liable for collecting Lodging Taxes. Accordingly, the Company concluded in the first quarter of 2020 that the liabilities accrued in all Florida counties were no longer probable and reduced its reserves for Lodging Taxes by $87.0 million, including interest. A motion was
Airbnb, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
filed with the Florida Supreme Court in July 2020, and was subsequently denied in October 2020. The ultimate resolution of all remaining unresolved lawsuits cannot be determined at this time.
The imposition of such taxes on the Company could increase the cost of a guest booking and potentially cause a reduction in the volume of bookings on the Company’s platform, which would adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company will continue to monitor the application and interpretation of lodging and related taxes and ordinances and will adjust accruals based on any new information or further developments.
The Company is under audit and inquiry by various domestic and foreign tax authorities with regard to non-income tax matters. The subject matter of these contingent liabilities primarily arises from the Company’s transactions with its hosts and guests, as well as the tax treatment of certain employee benefits and related employment taxes. In jurisdictions with disputes connected to transactions with hosts and guests, disputes involve the applicability of transactional taxes (such as sales, value-added, and similar taxes) to services provided, as well as the applicability of withholding tax on payments made to such hosts. Due to the inherent complexity and uncertainty of these matters and judicial processes in certain jurisdictions, the final outcomes may exceed the estimated liabilities recorded.
During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020, the Company recorded $49.6 million of tax expense, $4.0 million of tax benefit, and $16.3 million of tax expense related to estimated hosts’ withholding tax obligations, respectively. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, the Company accrued a total of $118.1 million and $134.4 million of estimated tax liabilities, including interest, related to hosts’ withholding tax obligations, respectively. The Company has identified reasonably possible exposures related to withholding income taxes and value added taxes, and has not accrued for these amounts since the likelihood of the contingent liability is less than probable. At this time, the Company believes any losses that may arise from these potential liabilities would be immaterial; however, no assurance can be given as to the outcomes and the Company could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. With respect to all other withholding tax on payments made to hosts and transactional taxes for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, the Company is unable to determine an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss beyond the amounts already accrued.
In addition, as of December 31, 2019 and 2020, the Company accrued a total of $55.4 million and $65.9 million of estimated tax liabilities related to certain employee benefits and related employment taxes, respectively. Refer to Note 14, Income Taxes, for further discussion on other tax matters.
Legal and Regulatory Matters
The Company has been and is currently a party to various legal and regulatory matters arising in the normal course of business. Such proceedings and claims, even if not meritorious, can require significant financial and operational resources, including the diversion of management’s attention from the Company’s business objectives.
Regulatory Matters
The Company operates in a complex legal and regulatory environment and its operations are subject to various U.S. and foreign laws, rules, and regulations, including those related to: Internet activities; short-term rentals, long-term rentals and home sharing; real estate, property rights, housing and land use; travel and hospitality; privacy and data protection; intellectual property; competition; health and safety; protection of minors; consumer protection; employment; payments, money transmission, economic and trade sanctions, anti-corruption and anti-bribery; taxation; and others. In addition, the nature of the Company’s business exposes it to inquiries and potential claims related to the compliance of the business with applicable law and regulations. In some instances, applicable laws and regulations do not yet exist or are being applied, interpreted or implemented to address aspects of the Company’s business, and such adoption or interpretation could further alter or impact the Company’s business.
In certain instances, the Company has been party to litigation with municipalities relating to or arising out of certain regulations. In addition, the implementation and enforcement of regulation can have an impact on the Company’s business.
New York, New York. In 2010, New York amended its state law to ban the short-term rental of multiple dwelling units in New York City unless a permanent resident is present during the stay. In October 2016, the state amended the law to also ban the advertising of such short-term rentals, and the Company filed a lawsuit against both the state and the city of New York challenging the applicability of the 2016 amendment to the Company. In November and December 2016, the Company settled the lawsuit against the state and the city, respectively, with each agreeing not to enforce the amended law against the Company. Separately, New York City interprets its Administrative Code to bar or regulate short-term rentals in New York City unless specific requirements are met. In July 2018, New York City enacted a new law requiring home sharing platforms to disclose detailed data on hosts and listings to the city on a monthly basis. In August 2018, the Company filed a lawsuit against the city challenging the new data disclosure law on constitutional and statutory grounds. In January 2019, a federal judge entered a preliminary injunction barring the law from going into effect. On February 13, 2020, the parties requested that the Court stay the action so that the parties could explore settlement. In June 2020, the Company settled its lawsuit with New York City. Under the terms of the settlement, the city ordinance was amended to reduce the number of listings subject to data sharing and to provide for the confidentiality of data. The revised ordinance went into effect in January 2021.