Sales and marketing costs primarily consist of performance and brand marketing, personnel-related expenses, including those related to field operations, portions of referral incentives and coupons, policy and communications, and allocated costs for facilities and information technology. These costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expenses were $474.5 million, $712.6 million, and $176.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020, respectively.
General and Administrative
General and administrative costs primarily consist of personnel-related expenses for executive management and administrative functions, including finance and accounting, legal, and human resources, as well as general corporate and director and officer insurance. General and administrative costs also include certain professional services fees, allocated costs for facilities and information technology expenses, indirect taxes including lodging taxes where the Company may be held jointly liable with hosts for collecting and remitting such taxes, and bad debt expense. These costs are expensed as incurred.
Restructuring Charges
Costs and liabilities associated with management-approved restructuring activities are recognized when they are incurred. One-time employee termination costs are recognized at the time of communication to employees, unless future service is required, in which case the costs are recognized ratably over the future service period. Ongoing employee termination benefits are recognized as a liability when it is probable that a liability exists and the amount is reasonably estimable. Restructuring charges are recognized as an operating expense within the consolidated statements of operations and related liabilities are recorded within accrued expenses and other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. The Company periodically evaluates and, if necessary, adjusts its estimates based on currently available information.
Income Taxes
Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax law in effect for the years in which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is recorded for deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
The Company evaluates and accounts for uncertain tax positions using a two-step approach. Recognition, step one, occurs when the Company concludes that a tax position, based solely on its technical merits, is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination. Measurement, step two, determines the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. Derecognition of a tax position that was previously recognized would occur when the Company subsequently determines that a tax position no longer meets the more-likely-than-not threshold of being sustained.
Foreign Currency
The Company’s reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. The Company determines the functional currency for each of its foreign subsidiaries by reviewing their operations and currencies used in their primary economic environments. Assets and liabilities for foreign subsidiaries with
Airbnb, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
functional currency other than U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars at the rate of exchange existing at the balance sheet date. Statements of operations amounts are translated at average exchange rates for the period. Translation gains and losses are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a component of stockholders’ equity (deficit). No material amounts were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020.
Remeasurement gains and losses are included in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of operations. Monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date and nonmonetary assets and liabilities are measured at historical exchange rates. Total net realized and unrealized gains (losses) on foreign currency transactions and balances totaled $(6.0) million, $(4.8) million, and $31.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020, respectively.
Derivative Instruments
The Company enters into financial derivative instruments, consisting of foreign currency contracts to mitigate its exposure to the impact of movements in currency exchange rates on its transactional balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. The Company does not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. Derivative instruments are recognized in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes are recognized in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of operations in the period that the changes occur.
Stock-Based Compensation
The Company measures and recognizes the compensation expense for all stock-based awards based on the estimated grant date fair value of the award.
The Company uses the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options on the date of grant. Calculating the fair value of stock options using the Black-Scholes model requires certain highly subjective inputs and assumptions. The Company estimates the expected term of stock options granted based on the simplified method and estimates the volatility of its common stock on the date of grant based on the average historical stock price volatility of comparable publicly-traded companies. The simplified method calculates the expected term as the mid-point between the weighted-average time to vesting and the contractual maturity. The simplified method is used as the Company does not have sufficient historical data regarding stock option exercises. In addition, the Company accounts for forfeitures as they occur. The Company records stock-based compensation expense for its stock options on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally four years. The contractual term of the Company’s stock options is ten years.
Prior to the Company’s IPO, the absence of an active market for the Company’s common stock required the Company’s board of directors, which includes members who possess extensive business, finance, and venture capital experience, to determine the fair value of its common stock for purposes of granting stock options and RSUs. The Company obtained contemporaneous third-party valuations to assist the board of directors in determining the fair value of the Company’s common stock. All stock options granted are exercisable at a price per share not less than the fair value of the shares of the Company’s common stock as determined by the board of directors (the “Fair Value”) underlying those stock options on their respective grant dates.
The fair value of RSUs is estimated based on the fair value on the date of grant. The contractual term of the RSUs is seven years. Substantially all of the Company’s RSUs vest upon the satisfaction of both a service-based vesting condition and liquidity-event performance-based vesting condition. In November 2019, the Company also began granting RSUs with a service-based vesting condition only. Stock-based compensation expense is only recognized for RSUs for which the service-based and liquidity-event performance-based vesting conditions have been met. The liquidity-event performance-based vesting condition for RSUs was satisfied upon the effectiveness of the Company’s IPO Registration Statement on December 9, 2020. Upon the Company’s IPO in December 2020, the Company recorded a cumulative one-time stock-based compensation expense of $2.8 billion, determined using the grant-date fair values. The remaining unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to these RSUs is recorded over their remaining requisite service periods. The compensation expense for RSUs, which vest upon satisfaction of a service-based vesting condition only, is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”)
The Company recognizes stock-based expense related to shares issued pursuant to its ESPP on a straight-line basis over the offering period, which is typically 12 months. The ESPP provides for overlapping offering periods of twelve months, each comprised of six month purchase periods. The first offering period commenced on December 9, 2020 and will end on November 15, 2021, with the first purchase period thereunder ending on May 15, 2021 and the second purchase period thereunder ending on November 15, 2021. Offering periods thereafter will commence on each May 16 and November 16. The ESPP allows eligible employees to purchase shares of the Company's common stock at a 15 percent discount on the lower price of either (i) the offering period begin date or (ii) the purchase date. The Company estimates the fair value of shares to be issued under the ESPP using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
Net Loss Per Share Attributable to Common Stockholders
The Company applies the two-class method when computing net loss per share attributable to common stockholders when shares are issued that meet the definition of a participating security. The two-class method determines net income (loss) per share for each class of common stock and participating securities according to dividends declared or accumulated and participation rights in undistributed earnings. The two-class method requires earnings available to common stockholders for the period to be allocated between common stock and participating securities based upon their respective rights to receive dividends as if all earnings for the period had been distributed. The
Airbnb, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Company’s previously outstanding redeemable convertible preferred stock was a participating security as the holders of such shares participated in dividends but did not contractually participate in the Company’s losses.
Basic net loss per share is computed by dividing the net loss by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period, less weighted-average shares subject to repurchase. The diluted net loss per share is computed by giving effect to all potentially dilutive securities outstanding for the period. For periods in which the Company reports net losses, diluted net loss per share attributable to common stockholders is the same as basic net loss per share attributable to common stockholders, because potentially dilutive common shares are anti-dilutive.
Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Comprehensive income (loss) consists of net income (loss) and other comprehensive income (loss). Other comprehensive income (loss) reflects gains and losses that are recorded as a component of stockholders’ equity (deficit) and are excluded from net income (loss). Other comprehensive income (loss) consists of foreign currency translation adjustments related to consolidation of foreign entities and unrealized gains (losses) on securities classified as available-for-sale.
Contingencies
The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. The Company accrues for losses associated with legal claims when such losses are probable and can be reasonably estimated. These accruals are adjusted as additional information becomes available or circumstances change.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which has subsequently been amended by ASUs 2018-01, 2018-10, 2018-11, 2018-20, 2019-01, and 2019-10. The guidance requires the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities for substantially all leases under U.S. GAAP. The guidance retains a distinction between finance leases and operating leases. The classification criteria for distinguishing between finance leases and operating leases are substantially similar to the classification criteria for distinguishing between capital leases and operating leases under previous U.S. GAAP. The expense recognition and cash flow treatment arising from a finance lease and operating lease by a lessee have not changed significantly from previous U.S. GAAP. For operating leases, a lessee is required to do the following: (i) recognize a ROU asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, on the consolidated balance sheets; (ii) recognize a single lease cost, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term, generally on a straight-line basis; and (iii) classify all cash payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows. The Company adopted the standard on January 1, 2019.