Segment information is presented in accordance with ASC 280, Segment Reporting, which establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments. It also establishes standards for related disclosures about products and geographic areas. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise that engage in business activities that earn revenues, incur expenses and prepare separate financial information that is evaluated regularly by the Company’s chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) in order to allocate resources and assess performance. The Company's Chief Executive Officer is its CODM. The Corporate and Other segment includes expenses related to certain executive salaries, interest costs related to the Company's credit agreements, acquisition related costs, and other corporate costs that are not directly attributable to the Company's operating segments. The Company's segments follow the same accounting policies as the Company. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company moved its concrete and steel pressure pipe business from the Water Pipe & Products segment to the Drainage Pipe & Products segment to better align with how the CODM manages the businesses. The prior years have been restated to conform with the re-segmentation, which resulted in an immaterial impact to the prior periods' segment information.
Net sales from the major products sold to external customers include drainage pipe and precast products, and concrete and steel water transmission pipe.
The Company’s three geographic areas consist of the United States, Canada and Mexico for which it reports net sales, fixed assets and total assets. For purposes of evaluating segment profit, the CODM reviews
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) as a basis for making the decisions to allocate resources and assess performance.
The following tables set forth the disaggregation of revenue earned from contracts with customers based on the Company's reportable segments as well as other financial information attributable to the Company's reportable segments for the periods presented (in thousands):
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
In addition, the Company also has an investment in an equity method investee included in the Drainage Pipe & Products segment for which earnings from equity method investee were $11.3 million, $10.5 million and $10.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and with the following balances (in thousands):
Disaggregated revenue by geographic location is provided in the tables below. The Company has operations in the United States, Canada and Mexico. The economic characteristics of the Company's customers does not significantly vary across geographic locations or product lines. The Company has both revenues and long-lived assets in each country and those assets and revenues are recorded within geographic location as follows (in thousands):
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
22. Related party transactions
CP&P
The Company sold certain goods and services to its joint venture, CP&P, including spare parts for repairs, and property rentals. For the year ended December 31, 2020, Forterra sold $1.4 million of product to CP&P and purchased goods and services from CP&P for an amount of $1.0 million. For the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company sold $0.4 million of product to CP&P and received $0.5 million in exchange for purchased goods and services from CP&P. For the year ended December 31, 2018, Forterra sold $0.1 million of product to CP&P and purchased $0.2 million of goods and services from CP&P.
Master Builders Solutions US, LLC
During the year ended December 31, 2020, Forterra sold $0.1 million of product to Master Builders Solutions US, LLC, an affiliate of Lone Star, and purchased goods from Master Builders Solutions US, LLC for an amount of $0.9 million.
Tax receivable agreement
In connection with the IPO, the Company entered into a tax receivable agreement with Lone Star that provides for, among other things, the payment by the Company to Lone Star of 85% of the amount of certain covered tax benefits, which may reduce the actual liability for certain taxes that the Company might otherwise be required to pay. See further discussion in Note 16, Commitments and contingencies.
Bricks Joint Venture
Prior to the IPO, LSF9 distributed its brick operations in the United States and Eastern Canada to a joint venture formed by an affiliated of Lone Star (the "Bricks Disposition"). In connection with the Bricks Disposition, Forterra entered into a transition services agreement with the joint venture, whereby Forterra would continue to provide certain administrative services, including but not limited to information technology, accounting and treasury for a limited period of time. Such transition services ended in February 2018. The Company recognized a total of $10 thousand in Other operating income, net pursuant to the transition services agreement for the year ended December 31, 2018.
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
23. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
The following is a summary of the quarterly results of operations:
24. Supplemental Cash Flow Disclosures
Item 9.
section_9: Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
None.
Item 9A.
section_9A: Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
As required by Rule 13a-15(b) under the Exchange Act, our management, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act) as of December 31, 2020.
Based on the evaluation referenced above, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level as of December 31, 2020.
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Our management, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act.
Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Management assessed the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020 using the criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting established in “Internal Control - Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on this assessment, management concluded that as of December 31, 2020, our internal control over financial reporting was effective.
Ernst & Young LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm that audited the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, also audited the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, as stated in their report included below.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2020 that have a materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Inherent Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls
Our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our system of internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed or operated, can provide only reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system of internal control are met. The design of our control system reflects the fact that there are resource constraints, and that the benefits of such control system must be considered relative to their costs. Further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control failures and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the intentional acts of individuals, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is also based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that the design of any particular control will always succeed in achieving its objective under all potential future conditions.
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Forterra, Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Forterra, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 2013 framework (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Forterra, Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, and the related notes, and our report dated February 25, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting