Although we were and have continued to be categorized as “essential” and therefore permitted to operate our facilities consistent with applicable local, state, provincial and federal orders, any changes in these governmental orders, including the imposition of new orders, changes to the extent or the duration thereof, or any further, more severe, actions taken by governmental authorities or that we may choose to take whether required or not could have a material adverse effect on our operations.
Our customers have been and could continue to be negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, including as a result of project delays and other adverse impacts on demand, which could result in adverse impacts on our sales and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, our suppliers and other parts of our supply chain could experience disruptions and other adverse impacts as a result of the pandemic that could cause us to be unable to obtain key raw materials and supplies on a timely or cost-effective basis, or in some cases, at all, any of which could result in our being unable to service our customers’ demands, and adversely affect our business and results of operations.
The COVID-19 pandemic, including any actions we have taken in response, has disrupted our internal operations, including by heightening the risk that a significant portion of our workforce will suffer illness or otherwise not be permitted or be unable to work, and required that certain of our employees work remotely, which has heightened certain risks, including those related to cybersecurity and internal controls. For example, during the second quarter of 2020, a small number of employees tested positive for COVID-19, which required us to temporarily close a small number of our manufacturing facilities, and during the third and fourth quarters we experienced increasing numbers of employees who tested positive for COVID-19 and were required to quarantine. Additionally, we cannot predict whether these conditions and concerns will continue or whether we will experience more significant or frequent disruptions in the future, including the complete closure of one or more of our facilities, which could cause delays in our ability to produce and deliver products to our customers and cause us to suffer reputational harm and incur penalties and other types of damages if we are not able to meet contractual obligations. In addition, in the event demand for our products is significantly reduced as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and related economic impacts, we may need to assess different corporate actions and cost-cutting measures, including reducing our workforce or closing one or more facilities, and these actions could cause us to incur costs and expose us to other risks and inefficiencies, including whether we would be able to rehire our workforce or recommence operations at a given facility if our business experiences a subsequent recovery.
The COVID-19 pandemic has also adversely affected economies worldwide and significantly disrupted financial and other capital markets, causing a significant deceleration of economic activity. This slowdown has decreased demand for a wide variety of goods and services, diminished trade levels, reduced production and led to widespread corporate downsizing, causing a sharp increase in unemployment. The impact of this outbreak on the U.S. and world economies is uncertain and, unless until the outbreak is contained, these adverse impacts could worsen, impacting all segments of the global economy, and result in a significant recession or worse. Although we initially took certain precautionary measures to preserve liquidity, including borrowing under our ABL Facility and suspending non-essential capital expenditures, we have since ended these measures and repaid the amounts borrowed under the ABL Facility, and a prolonged period of generating lower cash from operations or other pressures on our liquidity could adversely affect our financial condition, the achievement of our strategic objectives or require us to seek additional capital. Conditions in the financial and capital markets have been extremely volatile and may limit or entirely restrict the availability of funding or increase the cost of funding, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.
Considerable uncertainty still surrounds the COVID-19 virus and the pandemic's potential effects, and the extent and effectiveness of responses taken on local, national and global levels. No fully effective vaccines or treatments have been developed and one may not be discovered early enough to protect against a worsening of the pandemic or to prevent COVID-19 from becoming endemic. While we expect the pandemic and related events will continue to have a negative effect on us, the unpredictable and unprecedented nature and fluidity of current circumstances makes it impractical to identify all potential risks or estimate the full extent and scope of the impact on our business and industry, as well as national, regional and global markets and economies. However, our ability to conduct our business in the manner previously or currently expected could be materially and adversely affected, and any of the foregoing risks and uncertainties as well as those that have not yet manifested
themselves or been identified could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Our dependence on key customers with whom we do not have long-term contracts and consolidation within our customers’ industries could have a material adverse effect on us.
Our business is dependent on certain key customers. In 2020 and 2019, Core & Main, our largest customer accounted for 16% and 15% of our net sales, respectively. As is customary in our industry, we do not enter into long-term contracts with many of our customers. As a result, our customers could stop purchasing our products, reduce their purchase levels or request reduced pricing structures at any time. We may therefore need to adapt our manufacturing, pricing and marketing strategies in response to a customer who may seek concessions in return for its continued or increased business. In addition, a macroeconomic downturn or any other cause of consolidation in the U.S. homebuilding industry or among our other customers, as occurred during the financial crisis when a number of smaller businesses went out of business or were acquired, can significantly increase the market share and bargaining power of a limited number of customers and give them significant additional leverage to negotiate more favorable terms and place greater demands on us. A loss of one or more customers or a meaningful reduction in their purchases from us or further consolidation within our end markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The seasonality of our business and its susceptibility to severe and prolonged periods of adverse weather and other conditions could have a material adverse effect on us.
Demand for our products in some markets is typically seasonal, with periods of snow or heavy rain negatively affecting construction activity. For example, sales of our products in Canada and the Northeast and Midwest regions of the United States are somewhat higher from spring through autumn when construction activity is greatest. Construction activity declines in these markets during the winter months in particular due to inclement weather, frozen ground and fewer hours of daylight. Construction activity can also be affected in any period by adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes, severe storms, torrential rains and floods, natural disasters such as fires and earthquakes and similar events, any of which could reduce demand for our products, push back existing orders to later dates or lead to cancellations. Furthermore, our ability to deliver products on time or at all to our customers can be significantly impeded by such conditions and events, such as those described above. Public holidays and vacation periods constitute an additional factor that may exacerbate certain seasonality effects, as building projects or industrial manufacturing processes may temporarily cease. These conditions, particularly when unanticipated, can leave both equipment and personnel underutilized. Additionally, the seasonal nature of our business has led to variation in our quarterly results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. This general seasonality of our business and any severe or prolonged adverse weather conditions or other similar events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The use of our products is often affected by various laws and regulations in the markets in which we operate, any of which may have a material adverse effect on us.
The use of many of our products is subject to approvals by municipalities, state departments of transportation, engineers and developers. These approvals and specifications, including building codes, may affect the products our customers or their customers (the end users) are allowed or choose to use, and, consequently, failure to obtain or maintain such approvals or changes in building codes may affect the saleability of our products. Changes in applicable regulations governing the sale of some of our products or the failure of any of our products to comply with such requirements could increase our costs of doing business, reduce sales or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations, and any failure to comply with any current or future laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on us.
We are subject to federal, state, provincial, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment and natural resources, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges and the use, storage, discharge, handling, disposal, transport and cleanup of solid and hazardous materials and
wastes. We are required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain operations, and if we expand or modify our facilities or if environmental laws change, we could be required to obtain new or modified permits.
Environmental laws and regulations, including those related to energy use and climate change, tend to become more stringent over time, and any future laws and regulations could have a material impact on our operations or require us to incur material additional expenses to comply with any such future laws and regulations. Future environmental laws and regulations may cause us to modify how we manufacture and price our products or require that we make significant capital investments to comply. For example, our manufacturing processes use a significant amount of energy, and increased regulation of energy use to address the possible emission of greenhouse gases could materially increase our manufacturing costs or require us to install emissions control or other equipment at some or all of our manufacturing facilities.
If we fail to comply with any existing or future environmental laws, regulations or permits, we could incur fines, penalties or other sanctions and suffer reputational harm. In addition, we could be held responsible for costs and damages arising from claims or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations, including with respect to any exposure to or release of hazardous materials or contamination at our facilities, whether presently or previously leased, operated, or owned, or at third-party waste disposal sites. We could also be subject to third-party claims from individuals for property damage, personal injury or nuisance if any releases from our property were to cause contamination of the air, soil or groundwater of areas near our facilities. These laws and regulations may also require us to investigate and, in certain instances, remediate contamination. Some of our sites have a history of industrial use, and while we apply strict environmental operating standards and undertake extensive environmental due diligence in relation to our facilities and acquisitions, some soil and groundwater contamination has occurred in the past at a limited number of sites.