On March 13, 2015, through an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, Lone Star Fund IX (U.S.), L.P. (which is referred to, along with its affiliates and associates, but excluding Forterra and other companies that it owns as a result of its investment activity, as "Lone Star") acquired the building products business of HeidelbergCement AG, ("Heidelberg"), in the United States and Eastern Canada, (the "Acquisition"). The Acquisition purchase agreement included an earnout, which provided for the payment of contingent consideration of up to $100.0 million, if and to the extent the 2015 financial results of the businesses acquired by Lone Star in the Acquisition, including the Company and Heidelberg's former building products business in the United Kingdom, exceeded a specified Adjusted EBITDA target for fiscal year 2015, as calculated pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement. If
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
such Adjusted EBITDA calculation exceeded the specified target, LSF9 Concrete Holdings Ltd. ("LSF9") and, as a result of the internal reorganization transaction effected prior to the Company's initial public offering ("IPO"), the Company would be required to pay the U.S. affiliate of Heidelberg an amount equal to a multiple of such excess Adjusted EBITDA, with any payment capped at $100.0 million. In April 2016, the Company provided an earnout statement to affiliates of Heidelberg demonstrating that no payment was required. On June 13, 2016, Heidelberg provided notification that it disputed, among other things, the Company’s calculation of Adjusted EBITDA under the purchase agreement and asserting that a payment should be made in the amount of $100.0 million. On October 5, 2016, affiliates of Heidelberg filed a lawsuit in the Delaware Court of Chancery seeking specific performance and claiming access to the Company's books, records, and personnel; seeking a declaratory judgment concerning the scope of the neutral accounting expert’s authority; and in the alternative, claiming a breach of contract and seeking the $100.0 million and other damages (the "Delaware Action"). On December 8, 2017, the court granted the defendants' Motion to Dismiss the First Amended Complaint in the Delaware Action, finding that the earnout dispute should be heard before a neutral accounting arbitrator as set forth in the purchase agreement and that any claims that were required to be brought as indemnification claims under the purchase agreement were time-barred by the contractual limitations period. Following the dismissal of the Delaware Action, the Company and Heidelberg jointly engaged a neutral accounting expert to act as an arbitrator in the dispute as required by the purchase agreement. After briefing certain preliminary matters for the arbitrator and the production of additional documents, the parties began briefing the issues on the merits for the neutral accounting arbitrator, which was completed in April 2020. A hearing on the dispute was held in June 2020, and a written decision was issued by the neutral accounting arbitrator on September 10, 2020 in which the arbitrator ruled that no earnout payment was owed in the matter. The deadline for Heidelberg to take any action to overturn the ruling was in December 2020, and they took no action, so the Company believes the ruling is final. As of December 31, 2020, no liability for this contingency has been accrued as payment of any earnout is not considered probable.
Derivative Action
On January 15, 2019, a putative shareholder derivative complaint captioned Lee v. Bradley, et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, naming as defendants certain of the Company’s current and former directors and officers (the "Lee Action"). The complaint alleges the defendants violated Section 14A of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and related rules by failing to make certain disclosures in the Company's proxy solicitation in advance of the 2017 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, and that defendants breached their fiduciary duties, wasted corporate assets, and committed constructive fraud. The complaint also asserts unjust enrichment claims against certain defendants. The complaint seeks, on behalf of the Company, unspecified damages, an order directing the return of certain payments to the defendants, certain injunctive relief, and reasonable costs and attorneys' fees. After initially staying the case until the court in a prior, unrelated securities class action suit that has now been settled ruled on the motion to dismiss in that case, on December 11, 2019, the court in the Lee Action entered a Stipulation and Order consolidating the Lee Action and another derivative action filed in the same court into a single case (the "Consolidated Lee Action"), and providing a schedule for filing of an amended complaint and motions to dismiss, which has been further extended by agreement of the parties. A mediation of the dispute was held on June 12, 2020 but was not successful in resolving the dispute. Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in August 2020 and Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint in September 2020, which is now fully briefed and before the court and a decision is expected in the coming months.
The Company and other defendants are vigorously defending the Consolidated Lee Action. Given the stage of the proceedings, the Company cannot reasonably estimate at this time the possible loss or range of loss, if any, that may arise from the Consolidated Lee Action.
Long-term incentive plan
Following the Acquisition, Lone Star implemented a cash-based long term incentive plan (the “LTIP”), which entitles the participants in the LTIP a potential cash payout upon a monetization event as defined by the LTIP. Potential monetization events include the sale, transfer or otherwise disposition of all or a portion of the Company or successor entities of LSF9, an initial public offering where Lone Star sells/reduces its ownership in the Company or successor entities of LSF9, or through certain cash distribution as defined in the LTIP. Before
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
the payout of any cash the LTIP requires Lone Star realize in cash the full return of their investment plus a specified internal rate of return, which is calculated by comparing the return to Lone Star over the timeline of its investment in the Company and certain successor entities of LSF9. As of December 31, 2020, no such monetization events that meet the required return for an LTIP payment have occurred, and therefore no amounts were accrued in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. While no payments have occurred thus far, payments under the LTIP could be significant depending upon future monetization events. The timing and amount of such payments are unknown and is dependent upon future monetization events and market conditions that are outside of the control of the Company or the participants of the plan. Subsequent to the IPO, Forterra became directly liable for any payment obligations triggered under the LTIP, but LSF9 or one of its affiliates will remain obligated to make payments to the Company in amounts equal to any payment obligations triggered under the LTIP as and when such payment obligations are triggered.
Leases
The Company leases certain property and equipment for various periods under non-cancelable operating and finance leases. See Note 14 for future minimum lease payments under such agreements.
Tax receivable agreement
The Company has a tax receivable agreement (the "TRA") with Lone Star that provides for, among other things, the payment by the Company to Lone Star of 85% of the amount of certain covered tax benefits, which may reduce the actual liability for certain taxes that the Company might otherwise be required to pay. The tax benefits subject to the TRA include: (i) all depreciation and amortization deductions, and any offset to taxable income and gain or increase to taxable loss, resulting from the tax basis that the Company had in its assets as of the time of the consummation of the IPO, (ii) the utilization of the Company's and its subsidiaries’ net operating losses and tax credits, if any, attributable to periods prior to the IPO, (iii) deductions in respect of payments made, funded or reimbursed by an initial party to the tax receivable agreement (other than the Company or one of its subsidiaries) or an affiliate thereof to participants under the LTIP, (iv) deductions in respect of transaction expenses attributable to the acquisition of USP Holdings, Inc., and (v) certain other tax benefits attributable to payments made under the tax receivable agreement.
For purposes of the TRA, the aggregate reduction in income tax payable by the Company will be computed by comparing the Company's actual income tax liability with its hypothetical liability had it not been able to utilize the related tax benefits. The agreement will remain in effect for the period of time in which all such related tax benefits remain. The Company accounts for potential payments under the tax receivable agreement as a contingent liability, with amounts accrued when considered probable and reasonably estimable. The liabilities recorded by the Company for the tax receivable agreement at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 were $64.2 million and $77.4 million, respectively. The timing and amount of future tax benefits associated with the TRA are subject to change, and additional payments may be required which could be materially different from the current accrued liability. The Company anticipates that it will have sufficient taxable income in future periods to realize the full value of the obligation recorded. Future tax receivable agreement payments related to the tax basis of assets at the time of the IPO will be recorded as a reduction to the liability and will be recorded as a financing activity in the consolidated statements of cash flows. For the years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, the Company paid $13.1 million and $11.4 million, respectively on the TRA to Lone Star.
17. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Potentially dilutive securities include employee stock options and shares of restricted stock. Diluted EPS reflects the assumed exercise or conversion of all dilutive securities. The restricted shares are considered participating securities for the purposes of the Company's EPS calculation.
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
The calculations of the basic and diluted EPS for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018
are presented below (in thousands, except per share data):
Potential dilutive common shares were anti-dilutive as a result of the Company's net loss for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. As a result, basic weighted average shares were used in the calculations of basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share for those periods.
The number of stock options and restricted shares that were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because their inclusion would result in an anti-dilutive effect on per share amounts for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 213,413, 2,192,048 and 2,749,348, respectively.
18. Employee benefit plans
Defined Contribution Plans
The Company’s employees are able to participate in a 401K defined contribution plan. The Company contributes funds into this plan subject to certain limits. For the years ended December 31, 2020, December 31, 2019, and December 31, 2018, the Company recorded an expense of $13.0 million, $7.0 million and $6.6 million, respectively.
19. Stock-based plans
Stock Incentive Plans