As of December 31, 2020, we had accrued approximately $1.6 million for environmental liabilities. Additionally, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of future contamination. Any costs or other damage related to existing or future environmental laws, regulations or permits or any violations thereof could expose us to significant financial losses as well as civil and criminal liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We are subject to health and safety laws and regulations, and the costs to comply with, or any failure to comply with, any current or future laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on us.
Manufacturing sites are inherently dangerous workplaces. Our sites often put our employees and others in close proximity with large pieces of mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, chemical and manufacturing processes, heavy products and items and highly regulated materials. As a result, we are subject to a variety of health and safety laws and regulations dealing with occupational health and safety. Unsafe work sites have the potential to increase employee turnover and raise our operating costs. Our safety record can also impact our reputation. We maintain functional groups whose primary purpose is to ensure we implement effective work procedures throughout our organization and take other steps to ensure the health and safety of our work force, but there can be no assurances these measures or other measures we may take in the future will be successful in preventing injuries, including severe injuries and fatalities, or violations of health and safety laws and regulations. Any failure to maintain safe work sites or violations of applicable law could expose us to significant financial losses and reputational harm, as well as civil and criminal liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Warranty and related claims could have a material adverse effect on us.
We generally provide warranties on our products against defects in materials and workmanship, the costs of which could be significant. Many of our products such as gravity pipe are buried underground and incorporated into a larger infrastructure system, such as a city’s or municipality’s water transmission system, or built into the fabric of a building or dwelling. In most cases, it is difficult to access, repair, recall or replace these products. Additionally, some of our products, such as our pressure pipe, which is used in nuclear and coal-fired power generation factories, are used in applications where a product failure or construction defect could result in significant project delay, property damage, personal injury or death or could require significant remediation
expenses. Because our products, including discontinued products, are long lasting, claims can also arise many years after their manufacture and sale. In certain cases, we may also offer warranties for longer periods now for certain products to compete with certain substitutes, which could increase the number, size, and frequency of warranty claims in the future. Product failures may also arise due to the quality of the raw materials we purchase from third-party suppliers or the quality of the work performed by our customers, including installation work, matters for which we have little to no control, but which may still subject us to a warranty claim. We may also assume product warranty or other similar obligations in acquisition transactions regarding the products sold by the acquired businesses prior to the transaction date for which we are not indemnified pursuant to the terms of the relevant transaction documentation. Our quality control systems and procedures and those of our suppliers and customers cannot test for all possible conditions of use or identify all defects in the design, engineering or specifications of one of our products or the raw materials we use before they are put to their intended purpose. Therefore, there can be no assurances that we will not supply defective or inferior products that cause product or system failure, which could give rise to potentially extensive warranty and other claims for damages, as well as negatively impact our reputation and the perception of our product quality and reliability. While we have established reserves for warranty and related claims that we believe to be reasonable, these claims may exceed our reserves and any such excess and any negative publicity and other issues related to such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Sharing our brand name and logo could have a material adverse effect on us.
We share the “Forterra” brand with the operator of HeidelbergCement's former building products business in the United Kingdom, or Forterra UK, a public company listed on the London FTSE. Forterra UK is no longer affiliated with us and, to our knowledge, operates solely in the United Kingdom. We have no control over Forterra UK’s use of the “Forterra” name and logo in Europe. Any actions or negative publicity related to Forterra UK and its products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
HeidelbergCement asserted a claim against us related to the payment of an earnout in connection with the Acquisition and any payment we are required to make could have a material adverse effect on us.
HeidelbergCement asserted a $100.0 million claim against us regarding the earnout provision in the purchase agreement entered into in connection with the Acquisition. As discussed in greater detail in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” The neutral accounting arbitrator in the arbitration proceeding ruled against Heidelberg and found that no earnout amount was owed. We believe that the time has expired for Heidelberg to assert any objection to that ruling without such objection having been asserted, but if Heidelberg were to seek to overturn the ruling and be successful, we may not have sufficient cash to make such payment and may be required to incur additional indebtedness.
Production, Supply Chain and Systems Related Risks
Decreased availability of or increases in the cost of raw materials, including through the impacts of trade policy, could have a material adverse effect on us.
Our ability to offer our products to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials at reasonable costs, such as cement, aggregate, steel and scrap iron. Raw material prices for certain raw materials that are key to our products, such as steel and scrap metal, have been volatile in recent years. In particular, changes in U.S. trade policy, including the imposition of any tariffs by the U.S. or foreign governments, may negatively impact the availability and price of raw materials used in our production. In particular, in 2018 and 2019, the U.S. government imposed tariffs and quotas on certain imported steel articles, and other countries, such as Canada, have implemented retaliatory tariffs on certain U.S. imports, including steel. These actions, which are for an indefinite period of time, resulted in increased prices for both U.S. and non-U.S. steel, one of our main raw material inputs, and the continued imposition of these tariffs, increases in tariff rates, additional tariffs on other goods, or further retaliatory actions from other governments may result in higher costs for us, and there can be no assurance we will be able to pass any of the increases in raw material costs directly
resulting from the tariff to our customers. Such actions may also result in more difficulty or the inability to obtain needed materials.
Suppliers are also subject to their own viability concerns from economic, market and other pressures. In particular, many suppliers may decrease capacity during financial downturns or due to other market factors such as depressed prices. This decreased capacity, along with strong global demand for certain raw materials, has at times caused and may continue to cause tighter supply and significant price increases. Factors such as adverse weather conditions and other natural disasters, as well as political and other social instability, have and will continue to disrupt raw material supplies and impact prices.
Although we have agreements with our raw material suppliers, these agreements are generally terminable by either party on limited notice or contain prices that are based upon the volume of our total purchases. To the extent agreements with any of our raw material suppliers are terminated or we need to purchase additional raw materials in the open market, there can be no assurance that we could timely find alternative sources in reasonable quantities or at reasonable prices. In addition, sudden or unanticipated changes in sources for certain raw materials, such as cement, may require us to engage in testing of our products for quality assurance, which may cause delays in our ability to meet production schedule for our customers and timely deliver our products. Changes in U.S. trade policy and reactions of other governments to those changes could also negatively impact the availability of certain raw materials, such as steel, as the demand for U.S. steel could increase as a result of these changes. The inability to obtain any raw materials or unanticipated changes with respect to our suppliers could negatively impact our ability to manufacture or deliver our products and to meet customer demands.
We are susceptible to raw material price fluctuations. In recent years, prices of the raw materials we use have at times fluctuated and may be susceptible to significant price fluctuations in the future. We have hedged our positions with respect to certain raw materials in the past and may do so in the future, but we currently have no hedging in place regarding our raw material needs and are therefore more susceptible to any short-term price fluctuations. We generally attempt to pass increased costs, including higher raw material prices and government imposed costs, on to our customers, but the timing between acceptance of a customer order and the purchase of raw materials needed to fulfill such order, pricing pressure from our competitors, the market power of our customers or other pricing factors may limit our ability to pass on such price increases. If we cannot fully-offset increases in the cost of raw materials through other cost reductions, or recover these costs through price increases or otherwise, we could experience lower margins and profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
A material disruption or capacity constraints at one or more of our manufacturing facilities or in our supply chain could have a material adverse effect on us.