On March 30, 2020, Forterra entered into an interest rate swap transaction with a notional value of $400 million to reduce exposure to interest rate fluctuations associated with a portion of the Term Loan. Under the terms of the swap transaction, Forterra agreed to pay a fixed rate of interest of 1.08% and receive floating rate of interest indexed to one-month LIBOR, subject to a minimum of 1.00%, with monthly settlement terms with the swap counterparty. The swap has a 30-month term and expires on September 30, 2022. The interest rate swap is not designated as a cash flow hedge, therefore all changes in the fair value of the instrument are captured as a component of interest expense in the consolidated statements of operations. Accordingly, cash flows from the monthly interest rate swap settlements are included in net cash provided by (used in) operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows.
At December 31, 2017, the Company had foreign exchange forward contracts, designated as net investment hedges in accordance with ASC 815-20 Derivatives - Hedging, which allowed for the effective portion of the changes in the fair value of the instruments to be captured in accumulated other comprehensive income, and ineffective portion recorded in earnings. These instruments were novated to Forterra by an affiliate concurrent with the Reorganization, directly prior to the IPO and refinancing described in Note 1 and were settled in March 2018 resulting in a cash outlay of $5.0 million. This cash outlay was recorded within the investing activities section of the consolidated statements of cash flows. The net investment hedges were intended to
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
mitigate foreign exchange exposure related to non-U.S. dollar net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries against changes in foreign exchange rates. A quantitative analysis was utilized to assess hedge effectiveness for the hedges. The Company assessed the hedge effectiveness and measured the amount of ineffectiveness for the hedge relationships based on changes in forward exchange rates; any ineffectiveness was recorded immediately in current period earnings. The Company did not have any ineffectiveness related to net investment hedges during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. Cumulative changes in fair value of the effective portion of the hedging instruments were recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income and will be reclassified into earnings upon the sale or complete or substantially complete liquidation of the foreign entity.
On February 9, 2017, Forterra entered into interest rate swap transactions with a combined notional value of $525 million. Under the terms of the swap transactions, Forterra agreed to pay a fixed rate of interest of 1.52% and receive floating rate interest indexed to one-month LIBOR with monthly settlement terms with the swap counterparties. The swaps had a three-year term and expired on March 31, 2020. The interest rate swaps were not designated as cash flow hedges, therefore all changes in the fair value of these instruments were captured as a component of interest expense in the consolidated statements of operations. Accordingly, cash flows from the monthly interest rate swap settlements were included in net cash provided by (used in) operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows.
The Company elects to present all derivative assets and derivative liabilities on a net basis on its consolidated balance sheets when a legally enforceable International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (“ISDA”) Master Agreement exists. An ISDA Master Agreement is an agreement between two counterparties, which may have multiple derivative transactions with each other governed by such agreement, and such ISDA Master Agreement generally provides for the net settlement of all or a specified group of these derivative transactions, through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of a default on, or affecting any, one derivative transaction or a termination event affecting all, or a specified group of, derivative transactions. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company’s derivative instruments fall under an ISDA master netting agreement.
The following table presents the fair values of derivative assets and liabilities in the balance sheets (in thousands):
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
The following table presents the effect of derivative instruments on the consolidated statements of operations (in thousands):
14. Leases
The Company leases land and buildings, office spaces, vehicles, machinery and equipment under various lease agreements. A large portion of the Company’s leases were the result of the sale and leaseback of land and buildings related to certain production facilities. These leases have an initial term of 25 years, followed by one optional renewal term of approximately ten years that may be exercised at the Company’s discretion. See note 15, Sale-Leaseback transaction. These leases, with the exception of certain land leases, were classified as finance leases. The Company’s operating leases are mainly comprised of land and buildings, office spaces, vehicles, machinery and equipment leases, and have remaining terms of one to 25 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to ten years.
The components of lease expense were as follows (in thousands):
Supplemental cash flow information related to leases was as follows (in thousands):
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases was as follows (in thousands):
As of December 31, 2020, maturities of lease liabilities were as follows (in thousands):
15. Sale-Leaseback transaction
During April 2016, the Company sold 49 US and Canadian properties to Pipe Portfolio Owner (Multi) LP, (the "U.S. Buyer") and FORT-BEN Holdings (ONQC) Ltd., (the "Canadian Buyer") and entered into master land and building lease agreements under which the Company agreed to lease back each of the properties for an initial term of twenty years, followed by one optional renewal term of 9 years, 11 months. A deferred gain of $81.5 million related to the sale-leaseback transaction was being amortized over the life of the master leases. In addition, the Company concluded that the leases for land and buildings were operating leases, and the leases for the machinery equipment were capital leases. In October 2016, the Company entered into agreements to replace the original guarantor with Forterra, as the new guarantor, effective immediately following completion of the internal reorganization effected prior to the IPO. Due to the change in guarantor, the sale leaseback qualified for sales recognition and was classified as an operating lease beginning October 2016.
On June 5, 2018, the Company entered into exchange agreements and Amended and Restated Master Leases with each of the U.S Buyer and the Canadian Buyer (collectively, the “Exchange Transaction”). Under the exchange agreement between the Company and the U.S. Buyer, the Company exchanged ownership of a ductile iron pipe facility located in Bessemer, Alabama used in its Water Pipe & Products segment (the “Bessemer Facility”) for 21 facilities used in its Drainage Pipe & Products segment and the U.S. concrete and steel pressure pipe facilities previously part of the Water Pipe & Products segment, including a portion of one property used in both segments, all of which were previously included in the sale-leaseback transaction. Under the exchange agreement between the Company and the Canadian Buyer, the Company exchanged ownership of a smaller diameter ductile iron pipe facility located in Bessemer, Alabama used in its Water Pipe & Products segment (the “Mini Mill Facility”) for ownership of three Canadian concrete pressure pipe facilities that were previously included in the sale-leaseback transaction. No cash changed hands in the Exchange Transaction.
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
Under the Amended and Restated Master Leases, the Company leases 26 properties from the U.S. Buyer and 2 properties from an affiliate of the Canadian Buyer, each for an initial term of 25 years, through June 30, 2043, followed by one optional renewal term of nine years, eleven months that may be exercised at the Company’s option. The initial base rent under the U.S. Amended and Restated Master Lease is $17.1 million per annum, payable monthly, and is subject to a 2% annual increase during the initial term. If the Company elects to extend the term of the U.S. Amended and Restated Master Lease, the base rent for the first year of the extension will be the greater of 95% of the fair market rental value of the properties and an amount equal to 102% of the prior year’s base rent, subject to an annual increase based on changes in the Consumer Price Index, but capped at 4%. The U.S. Amended and Restated Master Lease restricts the Company’s use of the U.S. properties to heavy manufacturing, industrial, and other related uses. The Company cannot sublease or assign the properties covered by the U.S. Amended and Restated Master Lease without the prior written consent of the U.S. Landlord and subject to certain other restrictions. The terms of the Canadian Amended and Restated Master Lease are similar to those of the U.S. Amended and Restated Master Lease described above, except that the initial base rent is $1.2 million (CAD) per annum. The Company’s aggregate liability in connection with its representations, warranties, covenants and indemnification and other obligations is $5.0 million under the U.S. Exchange Agreement and $6.4 million (CAD) under the Canadian Exchange Agreement, subject to limited exceptions.
The Company accounted for the Exchange Transaction in accordance with the sale-leaseback accounting guidance under ASC 840, Leases. The fair value of the 24 facilities exchanged back was $86.1 million and was accounted for as the proceeds from the sale of the Bessemer and Mini Mill Facilities after adjusting for the transaction cost of $2.7 million. Consequently, a deferred gain of $67.3 million was recorded at June 5, 2018. The carrying value of the deferred gains of $35.0 million, the deferred rent of $3.1 million, and the deferred transaction costs of $2.4 million from the original sale-leaseback transaction were reclassified to reduce the carrying value of the 24 facilities exchanged back.
The Amended and Restated Master Leases extended the lease terms for all facilities, which caused the majority of the leases to be classified as capital leases instead of operating leases. Consequently, the Company recognized capital lease obligations as well as the gross value of the capital lease assets of $149.0 million, calculated by discounting minimum future lease payments using its incremental borrowing rate of 12.33%. The carrying value of the deferred gains of $100.0 million, the deferred rent of $3.8 million, and the deferred transaction cost of $5.7 million were reclassified to reduce the carrying value of capital lease assets.
During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company recognized $10.0 million of rent expense in cost of goods sold for operating leases, related to payments made under the sales leaseback transaction. See Note 14 for rent expense relating to the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020.
16. Commitments and contingencies
The Company is involved in legal proceedings and litigation in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. Other than routine litigation incidental to the Company's business and those matters described below, there are no material legal proceedings to which the Company is a party or to which any of the Company’s properties are subject.
Earnout Dispute