For certain engineering and construction contracts and building contracting arrangements, the Company enters into long-term contracts with customers. Revenue is recognized as the identified performance obligations are satisfied over time using an acceptable input method to measure the progress toward completion of the performance obligation if: the customer receives the benefits as work is performed, the customer controls the asset as it is being produced, or if the product being produced for the customer has no alternative use and the Company has a contractual right to payment. The Company uses its cost incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion to measure progress. The Company's contract liabilities consist of billings to customers in excess of revenue recognized which the Company records as deferred revenue. Revenue recognized during the years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, which was included in contract liabilities at the beginning of each period was not material. Contract assets include revenue recognized in excess of amounts billed, and balances billed but not yet paid by customers under retainage provisions which are classified as a current asset within receivables, net on the Company's consolidated balance sheet. The Company had no material contract assets on the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2020 or December 31, 2019. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, revenue recognized in continuing operations using the percentage of completion method amounted to 3%, 2%, and 1% and of total net sales, respectively.
The Company records net sales including taxes collected on behalf of its customers. Shipping and handling costs are accounted for as contract fulfillments costs and classified as cost of goods sold. See Note 20, Segment reporting, for the Company's disaggregated revenue disclosures.
The Company incurs shipping costs to third parties for the transportation of building products and bills such costs to customers. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded freight costs of approximately $122.7 million, $131.8 million and $127.0 million, respectively, on a gross basis within net sales and cost of goods sold in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
The Company generally provides limited warranties related to its products which cover manufacturing in accordance with the specifications identified on the face of its quotation or order acknowledgment and to be free of defects in workmanship or materials. The warranty periods typically extend for a limited duration of one year. The Company estimates and accrues for potential warranty exposure related to products which have been delivered.
Cost of goods sold and selling, general and administrative expenses
Cost of goods sold includes costs of production, inbound freight charges for raw materials, outbound freight to customers, purchasing and receiving costs, inspection costs and warehousing at plant distribution facilities. Selling, general and administrative costs include expenses for sales, marketing, legal, accounting and finance services, human resources, customer support, treasury and other general corporate services.
Recent Accounting Guidance Adopted
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. The standard replaces the incurred loss impairment methodology under current U.S. GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires the use of a forward-looking expected credit loss model for accounts receivables, loans, and other financial instruments. The Company adopted this ASU on January 1, 2020 using a modified retrospective approach, which did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In March 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-04, Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting. The amendments in the ASU provide optional guidance for a limited time to ease the potential burden in accounting for reference rate reform. The new guidance provides optional expedients and exceptions for applying U.S. GAAP to contracts, hedging relationships and other transactions affected by reference rate reform if certain criteria are met. The amendments apply only to contracts and hedging relationships that reference London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") or another reference rate expected to be discontinued due to reference rate reform. The guidance was effective upon issuance and
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
generally can be applied through December 31, 2022 and has not had any material impact to the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which establishes the principles that lessees and lessors shall apply to report information about the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from a lease. Under the new guidance, lessees are required to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, measured on a discounted basis, at the commencement date for all leases with terms greater than twelve months. Additionally, this guidance required disclosures to help investors and other financial statement users better understand the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases, including qualitative and quantitative requirements. The Company adopted Topic 842 during the first quarter of 2019, using the transition approach that permits application of the new standard at the adoption date instead of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements.
To adopt Topic 842, the Company elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allowed the Company to carry forward its historical assessments of (1) whether the existing contracts contained a lease, (2) the lease classification for existing leases, and (3) initial direct cost for existing leases. In addition to the package of practical expedients, the Company has elected the adoption expedients of (1) the exclusion of leases with terms less than 12 months, and (2) the election not to separate non-lease components from lease components for certain classes of underlying leased assets.
To adopt Topic 842, the Company recognized a cumulative catch-up adjustment to the opening balance sheet presented January 1, 2019. The adoption of the standard had a material impact on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet but did not have an impact on its consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss) or cash flows. As a result of the adoption, the Company has recorded additional lease assets and lease liabilities of approximately $63.9 million and $65.2 million, respectively, as of January 1, 2019. In addition, the Company recognized the carrying value of deferred gains related to certain sale and operating leaseback of land of $9.3 million, net of tax impact of $2.3 million, to beginning retained deficit as of January 1, 2019, in accordance with ASC 842-10-65-1.
In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income to allow a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the U.S. tax reform legislation commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (“TCJA”). This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The Company early adopted the guidance provided in the ASU during the first quarter of 2018 and reclassified $0.8 million of stranded deferred tax benefits related to its derivative instruments from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained deficit.
Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted
In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-12, Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes (Topic 740). The new guidance simplifies the accounting for income taxes by eliminating certain exceptions related to the approach for intraperiod tax allocation, the methodology for calculating income taxes in an interim period, hybrid taxes, and the recognition of deferred tax liabilities for outside basis differences. It also clarifies and simplifies other aspects of the accounting for income taxes. For public companies, the amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020 and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted in interim or annual periods with any adjustments reflected as of the beginning of the annual period that includes that interim period. Additionally, entities that elect early adoption must adopt all the amendments in the same period. Amendments are to be applied prospectively, except for certain amendments that are to be applied either retrospectively or with a modified retrospective approach through a cumulative effect adjustment recorded to retained earnings. The effects of this standard on the Company's consolidated financial statements are not expected to be material.
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
3. Acquisitions and divestitures
The acquisitions described below have been accounted for as business combinations (except as discussed below) as defined by ASC 805. The Company allocated the purchase price to the individually identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value on the date of acquisition. The excess purchase price over those fair values was recorded as goodwill. The determination of fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities required significant judgment, including estimates impacting the determination of estimated lives of tangible and intangible assets, calculation of the fair value of property, plant and equipment, inventory, and various intangibles. The fair values of assets and liabilities were determined using level 3 inputs as defined by ASC 820.
2019 transactions
On March 1, 2019, the Company acquired certain assets of Texas limited liability companies Houston Buckner Precast, LLC, Buckner Precast, LLC, Montgomery 18905 E. Industrial, LLC, and 1763 Old Denton Road, LLC (altogether "Buckner") for consideration of $11.8 million in cash, inclusive of a working capital adjustment. The acquired Buckner assets did not meet the definition of a business and, as such, the transaction was accounted for as an asset acquisition pursuant to the guidance in subsection 805-50 of ASC 805, Business Combinations. The assets of the Buckner acquisition operate as part of the Company’s Drainage Pipe & Products segment.
2018 transactions
Acquisitions
On April 2, 2018, the Company acquired substantially all the assets of Watkins Industries, Inc. for aggregate consideration of $4.5 million in cash and accounted for the transaction as a business combination. During the third quarter of 2018, the Company acquired certain assets of Anchor Concrete Products, Ltd. in Kingston, Ontario, for aggregate consideration of $2.5 million in cash and accounted for the transaction as an asset acquisition. Both of these acquisitions operate in the Company's Drainage Pipe & Products segment.
Divestitures
On January 31, 2018, the Company divested assets relating to the operation of certain Drainage Pipe & Products facilities in Tennessee, Alabama, and Georgia to Foley Products Company (“Foley”) in exchange for $9.1 million in cash, land in Texas and a Drainage Pipe & Products facility located in Prentiss, Mississippi.
The acquisition side of the exchange transaction was accounted for as a business combination as defined by FASB ASC 805, Business Combinations. In accordance with ASC 805, the purchase price is measured as the acquisition date fair value of the assets transferred by the Company to Foley in the exchange. In the exchange, the Company divested of the net working capital and certain of the real property of its Drainage Pipe & Products plants in Tennessee and Alabama, as well as the net working capital of certain Drainage Pipe & Products plants in Georgia. The purchase price of $37.2 million was the fair value of the divested assets which resulted in the recognition of a gain of $6.0 million, recognized in Other income (expense), net. The Company allocated the purchase price to the individually identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value on the date of acquisition. The excess purchase price over those fair values was recorded as goodwill.