On March 13, 2015, through an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, Lone Star acquired the building products business of HeidelbergCement AG, or Heidelberg, in the United States and Eastern Canada, or the Acquisition. The Acquisition purchase agreement included an earnout, which provided for the payment of contingent consideration of up to $100.0 million, if and to the extent the 2015 financial results of the businesses acquired by Lone Star in the Acquisition, including the Company and Heidelberg's former building products business in the United Kingdom, exceeded a specified Adjusted EBITDA target for fiscal year 2015, as calculated pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement. If such Adjusted EBITDA calculation exceeded the specified target, LSF9 Concrete Holdings Ltd., or LSF9, and, as a result of the internal reorganization transaction effected prior to the Company's initial public offering, or IPO, the Company would be required to pay the U.S. affiliate of Heidelberg an amount equal to a multiple of such excess Adjusted EBITDA, with any payment capped at $100.0 million. In April 2016, the Company provided an earnout statement to affiliates of Heidelberg demonstrating that no payment was required. On June 13, 2016, Heidelberg provided notification that it disputed, among other things, the Company’s calculation of Adjusted EBITDA under the purchase agreement and asserting that a payment should be made in the amount of $100.0 million. On October 5, 2016, affiliates of Heidelberg filed a lawsuit in the Delaware Court of Chancery seeking specific performance and claiming access to the Company's books, records, and personnel; seeking a declaratory judgment concerning the scope of the neutral accounting expert’s authority; and in the alternative, claiming a breach of contract and seeking the $100.0 million and other damages (the "Delaware Action"). On December 8, 2017, the court granted the defendants' Motion to Dismiss the First Amended Complaint in the Delaware Action, finding that the earnout dispute should be heard before a neutral accounting arbitrator as set forth in the purchase agreement and that any claims that were required to be brought as indemnification claims under the purchase agreement were time-barred by the contractual limitations period. Following the dismissal of the Delaware Action, the Company and Heidelberg jointly engaged a neutral
accounting expert to act as an arbitrator in the dispute as required by the purchase agreement. After briefing certain preliminary matters for the arbitrator and the production of additional documents, the parties began briefing the issues on the merits for the neutral accounting arbitrator, which was completed in April 2020. A hearing on the dispute was held in June 2020, and a written decision was issued by the neutral accounting arbitrator on September 10, 2020 in which the arbitrator ruled that no earnout payment was owed in the matter. The deadline for Heidelberg to take any action to overturn the ruling was in December 2020, and they took no action, so we believe the ruling is final. As of December 31, 2020, no liability for this contingency has been accrued as payment of any earnout is not considered probable. See Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements.
Shareholder Derivative Action
On January 15, 2019, a putative shareholder derivative complaint captioned Lee v. Bradley, et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, naming as defendants certain of our current and former directors and officers (the "Lee Action"). The complaint alleges the defendants violated Section 14A of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and related rules by failing to make certain disclosures in our proxy solicitation in advance of the 2017 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, and that defendants breached their fiduciary duties, wasted corporate assets, and committed constructive fraud. The complaint also asserts unjust enrichment claims against certain defendants. The complaint seeks, on behalf of the Company, unspecified damages, an order directing the return of certain payments to the defendants, certain injunctive relief, and reasonable costs and attorneys' fees. After initially staying the case until the court in a prior, unrelated shareholder class action that has now been settled ruled on the motion to dismiss in that case, on December 11, 2019, the court in the Lee Action entered a Stipulation and Order consolidating the Lee Action and another derivative action filed in the same court into a single case (the "Consolidated Lee Action"), and providing a schedule for filing of an amended complaint and motions to dismiss, which has been further extended by agreement of the parties. A mediation of the dispute was held on June 12, 2020 but was not successful in resolving the dispute. Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in August 2020 and Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint in September 2020, which is now fully briefed and before the court and a decision is expected in the coming months.
We and other defendants are vigorously defending the Consolidated Lee Action. Given the stage of the proceedings, we cannot reasonably estimate at this time the possible loss or range of loss, if any, that may arise from the Consolidated Lee Action. See Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements.
North Birmingham EPA Matter
U.S. Pipe received a General Notice Letter and Invitation to Conduct Removal Action dated September 20, 2013 from the EPA with respect to the 35th Avenue superfund site in Birmingham, Alabama. The letter requests that U.S. Pipe participate in an environmental response action in an area proximate to a closed U.S. Pipe facility in North Birmingham, Alabama. The U.S. Pipe North Birmingham facility was closed and, as part of the acquisition of U.S. Pipe by a private equity fund from Mueller Water Products, Inc. and Mueller Group, LLC, or the Sellers, in 2012, the facility was retained by and is currently owned by either the Sellers or one of their affiliates. The notice requested response activities including testing and removing surface soils at area residences alleged to be contaminated by locally-sourced air pollutants. In connection with the disposition, the Sellers agreed to jointly and severally defend and indemnify U.S. Pipe against any losses or environmental liabilities related to sites retained by the Sellers, including the North Birmingham facility. Accordingly, U.S. Pipe tendered the defense of this matter to the Sellers for defense and indemnification. The Sellers accepted the tender and, on behalf of U.S. Pipe, have responded to the EPA’s request to participate in a time-critical removal action by declining, based on the EPA’s failure to establish any nexus between the contamination and any operations at the U.S. Pipe North Birmingham facility. The EPA sent a renewed request addressed to the Sellers, U.S. Pipe and a number of other potentially responsible parties on August 8, 2014 seeking participation in a broader cleanup of soil at approximately 80 homes in North Birmingham. The Sellers again responded on U.S. Pipe’s behalf declining to participate on the same grounds. In September 2014, the EPA proposed that the site be listed on the National Priorities List. The Sellers continue to defend on this matter on behalf of U.S. Pipe. While we cannot provide assurance that such defense will be successful, because of the indemnification described above, we do not
believe the ultimate resolution of these matters will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Item 4.
section_4: Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
PART II
Item 5.
section_5: Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Common Stock
Our common stock is traded on Nasdaq under the ticker symbol “FRTA.” As of February 24, 2021, there were 3 stockholders of record of our common stock. A substantially greater number of holders of Forterra's common stock are “street name” or beneficial holders, whose shares of record are held by banks, brokers, and other financial institutions.
Dividend Policy
We have not declared or paid any dividends since our formation and currently do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. Additional information concerning restrictions on our payment of cash dividends may be found in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans
See Item 12, Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters for information regarding common stock authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans.
Item 6.
section_6: Item 6. Selected Financial Data
References in this Item 6 refer to our operations. The following tables set forth, for the periods and dates indicated, the selected historical financial data of Forterra, Inc. together with its consolidated subsidiaries. The accompanying historical financial statements are the financial statements of the Company and subsidiaries.
The selected financial data presented below represent portions of our financial statements and are not complete and should be read in conjunction with Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition" and "Results of Operations" and our consolidated financial statements.
1 Total debt, net of debt issuance costs and original issuance discount
Item 7.
section_7: Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".
This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those set forth under the heading Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See the section entitled “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements.”
Overview
Our Company
We are a manufacturer of ductile iron pipe and concrete pipe and precast products in the United States and Eastern Canada for a variety of essential water-related infrastructure applications, including water transmission, distribution and drainage. Our manufacturing and distribution network allows us to serve most major U.S. and Eastern Canadian markets. We operate 77 active manufacturing facilities and currently have additional manufacturing capacity available in both of our segments, providing room to increase production to meet short-cycle demand with minimal incremental investment. These facilities and our distribution network provide us with a local presence and the necessary proximity to our customers to minimize delivery time and distribution costs to the markets we serve.
Quikrete Merger Agreement
On February 19, 2021, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Quikrete Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or Parent, and Jordan Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent, or Merger Sub. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of specified conditions, Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company, or the Merger, with us surviving the Merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent.
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger, or the Effective Time, each issued and outstanding share of common stock of ours (other than (i) any shares held in the treasury of us or owned, directly or indirectly, by Parent, Merger Sub or any wholly-owned subsidiary of us immediately prior to the Effective Time, (ii) shares that are subject to any vesting restrictions, or the Company Restricted Shares, granted under our stock incentive plans, or the Company Stock Plans, and (iii) any shares owned by stockholders who have properly exercised and perfected appraisal rights under Delaware law) will be automatically canceled and converted into the right to receive $24.00 in cash, without interest, or Merger Consideration, subject to deductions for any required withholding tax.
At the Effective Time: