If we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our indebtedness that we currently face could intensify. In addition to the risk of higher interest rates and fees, the non-economic terms of any additional indebtedness may contain covenants and other terms restricting our financial, operating and strategic flexibility to an equal or greater extent as those imposed by our credit facility, the indenture governing our senior secured notes dues due 2025 and the master leases. Additional indebtedness may also include cross-default provisions such that, if we breach a restrictive covenant with respect to any of our indebtedness, or an event of default occurs, lenders may be entitled to accelerate all amounts owing under other outstanding indebtedness.
If we are required to refinance our indebtedness or otherwise incur additional indebtedness to fund strategic transactions or otherwise, any additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. If, at such time, market conditions are materially different or our credit profile has deteriorated, the cost of refinancing our debt may be significantly higher than our indebtedness existing at that time, or we may not be able to refinance our debt at all. Any failure to meet any future debt service obligations or any inability to obtain any additional financing on terms acceptable to us or to comply therewith could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Credit and non-payment risks of our customers could have a material adverse effect on us.
As is customary in our industry, the majority of our sales are to customers on an open credit basis, with standard payment terms of 30 days. While we generally monitor the ability of our customers to pay these open credit arrangements and limit the credit we extend to what we believe is reasonable based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition and payment history, we may still experience losses because of a customer’s inability to pay. As a result, while we maintain what we believe to be a reasonable allowance for doubtful receivables for potential credit losses based upon our historical trends and other available information, there is a
risk that our estimates may not be accurate, particularly in times of economic uncertainty and tight credit markets. Any inability to collect customer receivables or inadequate provisions for doubtful receivables could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our project-based business requires significant liquidity, and any inability to ensure adequate financing or guarantees for large projects in the future could have a material adverse effect on us.
The projects in which we participate, particularly in our pressure pipe business, can be capital-intensive and often require substantial liquidity levels. In line with industry practice, we receive prepayments from our customers as well as milestone payments. However, a change in prepayment patterns or our inability to obtain third-party guarantees in respect of such prepayments could force us to seek alternative financing sources, such as bank debt or in the capital markets, which we may not be able to do on terms acceptable to us or at all, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Certain of the contracts in our backlog may be adjusted, canceled or suspended by our customers and, therefore, our backlog is not necessarily indicative of our future revenues or earnings or a good indicator of our future margins, even if performed.
As of December 31, 2020, our backlog totaled approximately $510.2 million. In accordance with industry practice, many of our contracts are subject to cancellation, reduction, termination or suspension at the discretion of the customer in respect of work that has not yet been performed. In the event of a project cancellation, we would generally have no contractual right to the total revenue reflected in our backlog, but instead would collect revenues in respect of all work performed at the time of cancellation as well as all other costs and expenses incurred by us through such date. Projects can remain in backlog for extended periods of time because of the nature of the project, delays in execution of the project and the timing of the particular services required by the project. Additionally, the risk of contracts in backlog being canceled, terminated or suspended generally increases at times, including as a result of periods of widespread macroeconomic and industry slowdown, weather, seasonality and many of the other factors impacting our business. Many of the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contracts. The revenue for certain contracts included in backlog are based on estimates. Therefore, the timing of performance on our individual contracts can affect greatly our margins and hence, future profitability. There is no assurance that backlog will actually be realized as revenues in the amounts reported or, if realized, will result in any estimated profits.
As is customary in some of our markets, we provide our customers with performance guarantees and other guarantee instruments, such as surety bonds, that guarantee the timely completion of a project pursuant to defined contractual specifications. We also enter into contractual obligations to pay liquidated damages to our customers for project delays. We are required to make payments under these contracts, guarantees and instruments if we fail to meet any of the specifications. Some customers require the performance guarantees to be issued by a reputable and credit worthy financial institution in the form of a letter of credit, surety bond or other financial guarantee. Financial institutions consider our credit ratings and financial position in the guarantee approval process. Our credit ratings and financial position could make the process of obtaining guarantees from financial institutions more difficult and expensive. If we cannot obtain such guarantees from reputable and credit-worthy financial institutions on reasonable terms or at all, we could face higher financing costs or even be prevented from bidding on or obtaining new projects, and any of these or other related obstacles could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited.
Our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds through the issuance of new equity securities, debt or a combination of both. However, any sale or perception of a possible sale by Lone Star, and any related decline in the market price of our common stock, could impair our ability to raise capital. Separately, additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our capital requirements. If we issue new debt securities, the debt holders would have rights senior to common stockholders
to make claims on our assets, and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. If we issue additional equity securities, existing stockholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future securities offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interest.
The phase-out of LIBOR could increase our interest expense and have a material adverse effect on us.
LIBOR is the basic rate of interest used in lending between banks on the London interbank market.
Borrowings under our senior term loan and revolver use the London Interbank Offering Rate, or LIBOR, as a benchmark for establishing the applicable interest rate. The Financial Conduct Authority of the United Kingdom has announced that it plans to phase out LIBOR by the end of 2021. It is unclear if LIBOR will cease to exist at that time or if new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021. The U.S. Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large U.S. financial institutions, is considering replacing U.S. dollar LIBOR with a new index, the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or SOFR, calculated using short-term repurchase agreements backed by Treasury securities. Whether or not SOFR, or another alternative reference rate, attains market traction as a LIBOR replacement tool remains in question. Although our borrowing arrangements provide for alternative base rates, , those alternative base rates historically would often have led to increased interest rates, in some cases significantly higher, than those we paid based on LIBOR, and may similarly be higher in the future. Therefore, if LIBOR ceases to exist, we will likely need to agree upon a replacement index with our lenders, which would require an amendment to our borrowing arrangements, and the interest rate thereunder will likely change.
The consequences of the phase out of LIBOR cannot be entirely predicted at this time. For example, we may not be successful in amending our borrowing arrangements to provide for a replacement rate. If any new or alternative base rate for calculating interest with respect to our outstanding indebtedness may not be as favorable or perform in the same manner as LIBOR and could lead to an increase in our interest expense or could impact our ability to refinance some or all of our existing indebtedness. In addition, the transition process may involve, among other things, increased volatility or illiquidity in financial markets, which could also have an adverse effect on us whether or not any replacement rate applicable to our borrowings is affected. Any such effects of the transition away from LIBOR, as well as other unforeseen impacts, may result in increased interest expense and other expenses, difficulties, complications or delays in connection with future financing efforts or otherwise have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
Risks Related to the Proposed Merger
We may not complete the proposed merger within the time frame we anticipate or at all, which could adversely affect our business.
Completion of the merger is subject to a number of closing conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals or clearances. Regulatory authorities can require conditions on the proposed transaction, including requiring the disposition of certain assets, and the process of obtaining regulatory approvals could have the effect of delaying completion of the merger or of imposing additional costs or limitations. Effecting required dispositions can take time to negotiate and complete and there can be no assurances any such dispositions can be negotiated in a timely manner, on acceptable terms or at all. Further, while the parties have agreed to use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain the required regulatory approvals, Parent and its affiliates will not be required to take, or agree to take, certain actions with respect to assets, businesses or product lines of Parent or any of its subsidiaries, or the Company or any of its subsidiaries, accounting for more than $80 million of EBITDA for the 12 months ended December 31, 2020, as defined in and measured in accordance with the merger agreement.