We own and operate manufacturing facilities of various ages and levels of automated control and rely on a number of third parties as part of our supply chain, including for the efficient distribution of products to our customers. Any disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities or within our supply chain could prevent us from meeting demand or require us to incur unplanned capital expenditures. Older facilities and equipment are generally less energy efficient and are at an increased risk of breakdown or equipment failure, resulting in unplanned downtime. Any unplanned downtime at our facilities may cause delays in meeting customer timelines, result in damages claims, including liquidated damages, or cause us to lose or harm customer relationships. Additionally, we require specialized equipment to manufacture certain products, and if any of our manufacturing equipment fails, the time required to repair or replace this equipment could be lengthy, which could result in extended downtime at the affected facility. Any unplanned repair or replacement work can also be very expensive. Moreover, manufacturing facilities can unexpectedly stop operating because of events unrelated to us or beyond our control, including fires and other industrial accidents, floods and other severe weather events, natural disasters, environmental incidents or other catastrophes, utility and transportation infrastructure disruptions, shortages of raw materials, and acts of war or terrorism. Work stoppages, whether union-organized or not, can also disrupt operations at manufacturing facilities. Furthermore, we are generally responsible for delivering products to the customer and, while we deliver a small percentage of our products directly to the customer using our own fleet, we outsource this function and depend on third parties to deliver the vast majority of our products, primarily by truck with some reliance on rail where possible. Any shortages in trucking or rail capacity or any
increase in the cost thereof, whether as a result of strikes, slowdowns, a shortage of drivers, other disruption to the highway or rail systems, or other unrelated transportation issues could limit our ability to deliver our products in a timely and cost-effective manner or at all. Any material disruption at one or more of our facilities or those of our customers or suppliers or otherwise within our supply chain, whether as a result of downtime, facility damage, an inability to deliver our products or otherwise, could prevent us from meeting demand, require us to incur unplanned capital expenditures or cause other material disruption to our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Delays in construction projects and any failure to manage our inventory could have a material adverse effect on us.
Many of our products are used in water transmission and distribution projects and other large-scale construction projects which generally require a significant amount of planning and preparation before construction commences. However, construction projects can be delayed and rescheduled for a number of reasons, including unanticipated soil conditions, adverse weather or flooding, changes in project priorities, financing issues, difficulties in complying with environmental and other government regulations or obtaining permits and additional time required to acquire rights-of-way or property rights. These delays or reschedulings may occur with too little notice to allow us to replace those projects in our manufacturing schedules or to adjust production capacity accordingly, creating unplanned downtime, increased costs and inefficiencies in our operations and increased levels of excess or obsolete inventory. Additionally, we maintain an inventory of certain products that meet standard specifications and are ultimately purchased by a variety of end users. However, our demand forecasts are not always accurate and unexpected changes in demand for these products, whether project-driven, because of a change in preferences or otherwise, can lead to increased levels of excess or obsolete inventory. Any delays in construction projects and our customers’ orders or any inability to manage our inventory, which can lead to impairment charges, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Increased costs of energy could have a material adverse effect on us.
We use significant amounts of energy, including electricity and natural gas, in the manufacturing, transportation, distribution and sale of our products, and the related expense is significant. While we have benefited from the relatively low cost of electricity and natural gas in recent years, energy prices have been and may continue to be volatile and these reduced prices may not continue. Proposed or existing government policies, including those to address climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions or the effects of hydraulic fracturing could result in increased energy costs. In addition, factors such as international political and military instability, adverse weather conditions and other natural disasters may disrupt fuel supplies and increase prices in the future. Additionally, because we and other manufacturers in our industry are often responsible for delivering products to the customer, we are further exposed to increased energy prices as a component of our transportation costs. While we generally attempt to pass increased costs, including higher energy costs, on to our customers, pricing pressure from our competitors, the market power of our customers or other pricing factors may limit our ability to do so, and any increases in energy prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our business and financial performance could be adversely impacted based on disruptions, delays, outages of our information technology systems and computer networks.
Our manufacturing facilities as well as our sales and service activities depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex and sophisticated information technology systems and computer networks, which are subject to failure and disruption. These and other problems may be caused by system updates, natural disasters, malicious attacks, human error, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins or other similar events. Additionally, because we have grown through various acquisitions, we have integrated and are integrating a number of disparate information technology systems across our organization, certain of which may be outdated and due for replacement, further increasing the likelihood of problems. We may in the future replace and integrate systems or
implement new technology systems, but these updates may not be successful, they may create new issues we currently do not face, or significantly exceed our cost estimates.
We outsource certain portions of the operations of our information technology systems to a third party. Any failure of us or of our third party provider to effectively operate such systems could cause a disruption in our information technology systems. Any disruption in our information technology systems could interrupt or damage our operations and our ability to meet customer needs as well as our ability to maintain effective controls. These events could damage our reputation and cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities, including financial losses from remedial actions, business interruptions, loss of business and other unanticipated costs which may not be covered by insurance. Despite the defensive measures we have taken to protect our data and information technology, our systems could be vulnerable to disruption and any such disruption and the resulting fallout could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Employee Specific Risks
Labor disruptions and other union activity could have a material adverse effect on us.
As of December 31, 2020, approximately 33% of our workforce was covered by collective bargaining agreements, and approximately 24% of these employees were included in collective bargaining agreements that are due to expire within one year. If negotiations to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements are not successful or become unproductive, the union could take actions such as strikes, work slowdowns or work stoppages. Such actions at any one of our facilities could lead to a plant shut down or a substantial modification to employment terms, thereby causing us to lose net sales or incur increased costs. We have not had any recent union-organized work stoppages in the United States, Canada or Mexico; however, we have experienced one union organizing effort directed at our non-union employees in the past ten years. There can be no assurances there will not be additional union organizing efforts, strikes, work slowdowns or work stoppages in the future. Any such disruption, or other issue related to union activity, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We depend on the services of key executives and any inability to attract and retain key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on us.
Our key management personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, are important to our success because they are instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business and identifying expansion opportunities. Additionally, as our business grows, we may need to attract and hire additional management personnel. We have employment agreements with some members of senior management; however, we cannot prevent our executives from terminating their employment with us, and any replacements we hire may not be as effective. Further, we have undergone some changes at the senior management level, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and any transition involves inherent risk and any failure to ensure a smooth transition to new personnel could hinder our strategic planning, execution and future performance. While we strive to mitigate the negative impact associated with changes our senior management team, there may be uncertainty among investors, employees, customers and others concerning our future direction and performance. Our ability to retain our key management personnel or to attract additional management personnel or suitable replacements when needed is dependent on a number of factors, including the competitive nature of the employment market. Any failure to retain key management personnel or to attract additional or suitable replacement personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Any failure by us or the contractors with which we work to retain and attract necessary personnel or contract labor could have a material adverse effect on us.
Competition for hiring new and retaining existing qualified personnel is intense and our success depends in part on our ability to retain, attract and train necessary personnel, including engineering and other skilled technical personnel. Our experienced sales team has also developed a number of meaningful customer
relationships that would be difficult to replace. We compete with other companies for many employees in hourly positions, which have historically had high turnover rates. Without a sufficient number of qualified employees in each of these areas, the productivity and profitability of our operations and manufacturing quality could suffer. Additionally, our business relies on the ability of the contractors who install our products to obtain qualified employees, including experienced supervisors and foreman, and a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel could cause delays in customer’s ability to take shipments of our products.
Labor shortages may impact our ability to hire skilled or unskilled workers with the necessary experience. For example, the reduction in demand for products in our industry during the financial crisis led to a number of both skilled and unskilled workers leaving our industry permanently, reducing an already limited pool of available and qualified personnel. Furthermore, unemployment has declined in recent years, reaching historically low levels in the United States, which has further tightened the labor market. If new or more restrictive immigration legislation is enacted at the federal level or in states in which we do business, or if existing regulations are interpreted or enforced differently, these changes could further tighten certain labor markets.
If we are unsuccessful in hiring and retaining the necessary workforce, we may incur additional costs to run our business. Many of these positions have historically had high turnover rates, which can lead to increased training and retention costs. Our ability to control labor costs is also subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates, the impact of legislation or regulations governing wages, regulations governing payment of workers.