Our available cash and cash equivalents, borrowing availability under our $350.0 million Revolver, and funds generated from operations are our most significant sources of liquidity. While we believe these sources will be sufficient to finance our working capital requirements, planned capital expenditures that are essential, debt service obligations and other cash requirements for at least the next 12 months, our future liquidity will depend in part upon our operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions, including those related to the COVID-19 pandemic, and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. See “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K.
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had approximately $25.7 million and $34.8 million of cash and cash equivalents, respectively, of which $12.5 million and $12.6 million, respectively, were held by foreign subsidiaries. All of the cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 were readily convertible as of such dates into currencies used in the Company’s operations, including the U.S. dollar. As a result of the TCJA, we can repatriate the cumulative undistributed foreign earnings back to the U.S. when needed with minimal additional taxes other than state income and foreign withholding tax.
In connection with the IPO, we entered into a tax receivable agreement with Lone Star that provides for the payment by us to Lone Star of specified amounts in respect of any cash savings as a result of the utilization of certain tax benefits. The actual utilization of the relevant tax benefits as well as the timing of any payments under
the tax receivable agreement will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the amount, character and timing of our and our subsidiaries’ taxable income in the future. However, we expect that the payments we make under the tax receivable agreement could be substantial. The tax receivable agreement also includes provisions that restrict the incurrence of debt and require that we make an accelerated payment to Lone Star equal to the present value of all future payments due under the tax receivable agreement, in each case under certain circumstances. Because of the foregoing, our obligations under the tax receivable agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control. The passage of the TCJA significantly reduced the Company's anticipated liability under the tax receivable agreement. Our liability recorded for the tax receivable agreement at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 was $64.2 million and $77.4 million, respectively, with $8.3 million and $13.1 million, respectively, being classified as short-term. For the years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, we paid $13.1 million and $11.4 million, respectively, to Lone Star under the tax receivable agreement.
Our forecast for payments under the tax receivable agreement in 2021 is expected to be in the range of $8 to $10 million. We expect that future annual payments under the tax receivable agreement will decline each year in accordance with our tax basis depreciation and amortization schedule unless future transactions result in an acceleration of our tax benefits under the agreement. See Item 1A, Risk Factors and Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
Credit Agreements
During the year ended December 31, 2020, we voluntarily prepaid $203.5 million of our Term Loan prepaid $492.5 million of our Term Loan using the net proceeds from the offering of the senior secured notes, as further described below. As of December 31, 2020, we had $414.9 million outstanding balance under our Term Loan. At December 31, 2020, we had no borrowings under our Revolver and our available borrowing capacity under the Revolver was $235.6 million.
The Revolver provides for an aggregate principal amount of up to $350.0 million, with up to $330.0 million to be made available to the U.S. borrowers and up to $20.0 million to be made available to the Canadian borrowers. Subject to the conditions set forth in the revolving credit agreement, the Revolver may be increased by up to the greater of (i) $100.0 million and (ii) such amount as would not cause the aggregate borrowing base to be exceeded by more than $50.0 million. Borrowings under the Revolver may not exceed a borrowing base equal to the sum of (i) 100% of eligible cash, (ii) 85% of eligible accounts receivable and (iii) the lesser of (a) 75% of eligible inventory and (b) 85% of the orderly liquidation value of eligible inventory, with the U.S. and Canadian borrowings being subject to separate borrowing base limitations. The Revolver bears interest at a rate equal to LIBOR or CDOR plus a margin ranging from 1.75% to 2.25% per annum, or an alternate base rate, Canadian prime rate or Canadian base rate plus a margin ranging from 0.75% to 1.25% per annum, in each case, based upon the average excess availability under the Revolver for the most recently completed calendar quarter and our total leverage ratio as of the end of the most recent fiscal quarter for which financial statements have been delivered. The Revolver matures on June 17, 2025, subject to earlier maturity if greater than $75.0 million of our Term Loan remains outstanding 91 days prior to the scheduled maturity of the term loan credit facility or any refinancing thereof.
The Term Loan, as amended, provides for a $1.25 billion senior secured term loan. Subject to the conditions set forth in the term loan agreement, the Term Loan may be increased by (i) up to the greater of $285.0 million and 1.0x consolidated EBITDA of Forterra, Inc. and its restricted subsidiaries for the four quarters most recently ended prior to such incurrence plus (ii) the aggregate amount of any voluntary prepayments, plus (iii) an additional amount, provided certain financial tests are met. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements. The Term Loan matures on October 25, 2023 and is subject to quarterly amortization equal to 0.25% of the initial principal amount. Interest will accrue on outstanding borrowings thereunder at a rate equal to LIBOR (with a floor of 1.0%) or an alternate base rate, in each case plus a margin of 3.00% or 2.00%, respectively. Our credit agreement does not provide a mechanism to facilitate the adoption of an alternative benchmark rate for use in place of LIBOR. We plan to monitor the expected phase-out of LIBOR and may seek to renegotiate the benchmark rate with our lenders in the future. See Item 1A. "Risk Factors."
The Revolver and the Term Loan contain customary representations and warranties, and affirmative and negative covenants, that, among other things, restrict our ability to incur additional debt, incur or permit liens on assets, make investments and acquisitions, consolidate or merge with any other company, engage in asset sales and pay dividends and make distributions. The Revolver contains a financial covenant restricting Forterra from allowing its fixed charge coverage ratio to drop below 1.00:1.00 during a compliance period, which is triggered when the availability under the Revolver falls below a threshold. The fixed charge coverage ratio is the ratio of consolidated earnings before interest, depreciation, and amortization, less cash payments for capital expenditures and income taxes to consolidated fixed charges (interest expense plus scheduled payments of principal on indebtedness). The Term Loan does not contain any financial covenants. Obligations under the Revolver and the Term Loan may be accelerated upon certain customary events of default (subject to grace periods, as appropriate). As of December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with all applicable covenants under the Revolver and the Term Loan.
On July 16, 2020, two of our subsidiaries, Forterra Finance, LLC and FRTA Finance Corp., completed the issuance of $500 million senior secured notes, or the Notes, that are due July 15, 2025. The Notes have a fixed annual interest rate of 6.50%. Obligations under the Notes are guaranteed by us and our existing and future subsidiaries (other than the issuers) that guarantee the Term Loan and the obligations of the U.S. borrowers under the Revolver. The Notes and the related guarantees are secured by first-priority liens on the collateral that secures the Term Loan on a first-priority basis (which is generally all assets other than those that secure the Revolver on a first-priority basis as set forth below) and second-priority liens on the collateral that secures the Revolver on a first-priority basis (which is generally inventory, accounts receivable, deposit accounts, securities accounts, certain intercompany loans and related assets), which second-priority liens is ratable with the liens on such assets securing the obligations under the Term Loan and junior to the liens on such assets securing the Revolver. Upon closing, we used the net proceeds from this offering to repay $492.5 million of the principal amount of the Term Loan at par, plus accrued interest.
Parent Issuer and Subsidiary Guarantor Summarized Financial Information
The following information contains the summarized financial information for the parent (Forterra, Inc.) and subsidiary guarantors.
This consolidated summarized financial information has been prepared from the Company's financial information on the same basis of accounting as the Company's consolidated financial statements. Transactions between the parent and subsidiary guarantors presented on a combined basis have been eliminated. The principal elimination entries relate to investments in subsidiaries and intercompany balances and transactions. Certain costs have been partially allocated to all of the subsidiaries of the Company.
The subsidiary guarantors are 100% owned by the Company. All guarantees are full and unconditional and are joint and several. There are no significant restrictions on the ability of the Company to obtain funds from its U.S. subsidiaries, including the guarantors.
Summarized financial information for the two most recent annual periods was as follows (in thousands):
Cash Flows
The following table sets forth a summary of the net cash provided by (used in) operating, investing and financing activities for the periods presented (in thousands).
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Changes in operating cash flows between the periods are primarily due to the change in income from operations, timing of collections and payments, as well as the change in our inventory as compared to the prior year periods.
Operating cash flow increased to $243.2 million in 2020 as compared to $146.8 million in 2019 primarily due to higher income from operations and better working capital management. Operating cash flow increased to $146.8 million in 2019 as compared to $27.2 million in 2018 primarily due to higher income from operations and a decrease in ending inventory.
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $18.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to capital expenditures of $34.0 million, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of fixed assets of $15.6 million. Net cash used in investing activities was $42.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily due to capital expenditures of $42.9 million and the acquisition of Buckner assets of $10.8 million, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of fixed assets of $11.4 million. Net cash used in investing activities was $51.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 due to capital expenditures of $48.7 million, final net working capital settlement related to U.S. Pressure Pipe Divestiture of $8.5 million, settlement on derivative contracts of $5.0 million, business acquisitions of $4.5 million and other asset acquisitions of $1.9 million, partially offset by cash received from the Foley Transaction of $9.1 million and proceeds from sale of fixed assets of $8.4 million.
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities