Non-residential construction includes all privately financed construction other than residential structures. Revenues in this end-market are driven largely by new United States non-residential construction, for which demand is generally driven by job growth, vacancy rates, private infrastructure needs and demographic trends. Our products in this end market tend to be utilized primarily in shopping centers and similar types of suburban development as opposed to development of large office buildings, and we believe that the demand for suburban development should be stable to growing over the short to medium term. The supply of non-residential construction projects is also affected by the availability and cost of funding.
Our Products
Drainage Pipe & Products Segment
We manufacture drainage pipe and precast products in the United States and Eastern Canada. We also manufacture concrete pressure pipe products in Eastern Canada. Drainage pipe has residential, non-residential and infrastructure applications. It is primarily used for storm water applications, such as storm drains for roads and highways, and for residential and non-residential site developments. In addition, drainage pipe is used for sanitary sewers, low-pressure sewer force mains, tunneled systems, treatment plant piping and utility tunnels.
Drainage pipe consists of concrete reinforced by a steel cage. It is manufactured by producing a steel mesh cage, enclosing it in a form or mold and then pouring concrete around it to produce the pipe. Drainage pipe is manufactured in round, elliptical and arch shapes ranging from 12 inches to 144 inches in diameter and in box sizes ranging from three feet to 20 feet in length and width. We also manufacture a wide variety of precast concrete products, including box culverts, utility vaults, manholes, drainage inlets and pipe end sections. These precast concrete products are used for applications such as roadway drainage, airport drainage, storm water management, utility construction and water treatment and filtration systems. Our range of precast concrete products also includes products that fall under the general description of specialty precast, including products for which we hold patents that make us the exclusive manufacturer, or which are manufactured under license agreements with third parties. These specialty products include architectural panels for buildings, modular railroad crossings, retaining wall systems, highway noise barriers, storm water treatment systems and concrete vaults, which are used to house either dry utilities (such as electrical, data or communications equipment) or wet utilities (such as valves, pumps or water meters).
We also manufacture structural precast products in the United States and manufacture a range of precast concrete bridge girders for highway projects in both the United States and Eastern Canada. We manufacture a
variety of structural precast products primarily for infrastructure and non-residential applications, including hollow-core planks, prestressed bridge girders, beams, columns, wall panels, stairs, garage floors and architectural cladding. These products are used as structural and architectural elements in building structures such as parking garages and arched and modular bridges.
Precast concrete products are reinforced with steel, similar to pipe, and manufactured using either a dry cast or wet cast concrete mix, depending on the size of the piece and the number of identical pieces to be manufactured. In the dry cast method, a concrete mix with low water content, known as zero-slump concrete, is poured into a mold and then densely compacted around the steel reinforcement using a variety of manufacturing methods. The concrete structure is immediately removed from the mold and allowed to cure in a high humidity environment to ensure proper hydration of the concrete. This method allows multiple pieces to be produced from the same mold each day and is most suitable for high volume, repetitive manufacturing. In the wet cast method, a concrete mix with relatively high water content is poured into a mold and allowed to cure in the mold, which can take from four to 16 hours. Precast concrete products typically range in diameter from four to 12 feet for round products or in length and width from one foot to 12 feet for square or rectangular products.
We also regularly consider ways to innovate internally and expand our drainage pipe and precast product offerings by working to bring other products to market. Some of our product offerings include precast Duct Bank, Kenner Chainwall, and a number of storm water innovative technologies for storm water management marketed through our Bio Clean subsidiary. Kenner Chainwall is a precast concrete foundation that provides a structurally sound, on-grade or elevated foundation to support prefabricated shelters or equipment buildings. One use is to elevate electrical equipment in flood zones such as those devastated by hurricanes. Duct Bank is a precast product that consolidates and protects underground electrical and communication cables and can be used in the construction of large buildings as well as installing cabling underneath roads and areas with existing structures. Each of these products is now commercially available.
In addition, for larger diameter applications, we manufacture concrete pressure pipe, prestressed concrete pipe and bar-wrapped concrete pipe in Eastern Canada. Our concrete pressure pipe is used for water transmission and distribution, power plant cooling water lines, sewage force mains for wastewater and storm water and other diverse applications involving the movement of large volumes of water. Concrete-lined pressure pipe ranges from fourteen to 144 inches in diameter. Prestressed concrete pipe consists of a concrete core, a steel cylinder and a high tensile strength wire that is wrapped, under measured tension and at uniform spacing, around the steel cylinder. This wire wrap places the steel cylinder and concrete core in compression, developing the pipe’s ability to withstand specified hydrostatic pressures and external loads. An outside coating of mortar protects the wires. Bar-wrapped concrete cylinder pipe combines the physical strength of steel with the structural and protective properties of high strength cement mortar. In this type of pipe, a round steel bar is helically wound around a welded steel cylinder and all surfaces are encased in cement mortar. This composite pipe reacts as a unit when resisting internal pressure and external loads. The inside of the cylinder is lined with centrifugally cast cement mortar.
Our concrete pressure pipe is highly engineered and is built to order for technically demanding applications requiring various thresholds of working pressure, surge pressure and loads. Our engineers work closely with customers to design components and systems to meet specific regulatory and industrial demands.
In addition to our operations, we have a 50% equity interest in Concrete Pipe & Precast LLC, or CP&P, a joint venture with Eagle Corporation. CP&P operates 12 plants that serve the Mid-Atlantic and Southeastern United States. CP&P manufactures drainage pipe and precast concrete products and sells those products to similar types of customers as the ones to which we market. See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding CP&P.
Water Pipe & Products Segment
Utilizing the U.S. Pipe brand, we manufacture a number of products used for the transmission of potable water and wastewater in pipe diameters ranging from three to 64 inches.
We manufacture DIP in pipe diameters ranging from three to 64 inches in the United States. For each diameter of pipe, we offer a wide range of thicknesses with both standard and specialized linings and coatings. DIP is used for transmission and distribution of potable water and wastewater and is typically utilized for smaller diameter applications of 24 inches and smaller. DIP has residential and infrastructure repair replacement applications, including potable water distribution systems, small water system grids, major water transmission mains, wastewater collection systems, sewer force mains and water treatment plants. In addition to DIP, we also manufacture a full line of complementary joint restraints and fittings in Mexico, which are utilized for interlocking adjoining segments of pipe and are typically bundled with DIP. We also operate fabrication plants that modify our pipe to meet specific customer design requirements for above-ground applications.
DIP is manufactured using a process that consists of introducing molten iron into a rapidly-rotating steel mold and relying on centrifugal force to distribute the molten iron evenly around the inner surface of the mold to produce pipe of uniform size and dimensions. We also strive to innovate in our Water Pipe & Products segment, including by offering metallic zinc coating and TR-XTREME pipe. Metallic zinc coating is active corrosion protection for DIP. TR-XTREME pipe is DIP designed for areas of seismic activity and has joints that provide flexible extension capabilities.
Customers and Markets
Drainage Pipe & Products Segment
We typically sell our drainage pipe and precast products to contractors that perform construction work for various levels of government, residential and non-residential building owners, and developers in markets across the United States and Eastern Canada. Additionally, although they are not our direct customers, we view the owners and engineers who are customers of the contractors that purchase our products as our customers as well, because these owners and engineers often specify the types of products that our customers are required to use. We also sell our drainage pipe and precast products to utility companies. Several of our largest manufacturing facilities are located in close proximity to our markets. Our drainage pipe and precast products are typically shipped within a radius of 150 miles, but in some cases up to 350 miles, from our manufacturing facilities. Our pressure pipe is used in projects for regional water authorities and districts, cities, counties, municipalities, port authorities, private companies and industrial clients, including power plants.
Water Pipe & Products Segment
Our water transmission pipe products are sold to some of the largest waterworks distributors and contractors. Our Water Pipe & Products segment has significant sales through distributors, including Core & Main, a key customer that accounted for 16% and 15% of our consolidated net sales in 2020 and 2019, respectively. We also sell to utility contractors that work on new or replacement pipeline projects, primarily in the East, South and Midwest of the United States. DIP is typically shipped within a radius of 1,000 miles and concrete pressure pipe is typically shipped within a radius of 500 miles from our manufacturing facilities.
Competition
Drainage Pipe & Products Segment
Our competitors in our Drainage Pipe & Products Segment include Rinker Materials (a division of the QUIKRETE Companies) and Oldcastle Infrastructure (a unit of CRH plc), as well as numerous regional and local manufacturers. Additionally, our drainage pipe products compete with high density polyethylene, or HDPE, and polypropylene pipe products where such materials would serve as an appropriate substitute for our product.
Within Canada, our concrete pressure pipe products compete with DECAST (formerly Munro Concrete Products, Ltd.) and several other American and Canadian competitors. Our concrete-lined pressure pipe also competes with pressure pipe made from other materials such as fiberglass, HDPE and PVC.
Water Pipe & Products Segment
Our two largest competitors in DIP manufacturing are McWane, Inc. and American Cast Iron Pipe Company. Our DIP products also compete with polyvinyl chloride, or PVC, and HDPE pipe and, when pricing achieves certain levels, we may also compete with foreign manufacturers of DIP. Our national network of fabrication products competes with regional and local providers of those products and services.
Sales, Marketing and Distribution
Our products are generally made to order, but certain of our products are made to inventory. We have established target levels of inventory for certain products that we attempt to keep available at our manufacturing facilities to meet customer demand. Inventories are held at manufacturing facilities and, to a lesser extent, at distribution yards.
Our structural precast products, most precast concrete products and concrete pressure pipe are customized products that are made to order. Our order backlog for precast concrete products is typically two to six months. Our order backlog for concrete pressure pipe and other precast offerings (bridge products) is approximately eight months.
We seek to attract and retain customers through customer service and technical expertise, as well as product quality, our product and service offerings and competitive pricing. Our market strategy for products with non-residential end users is centered on building and maintaining strong customer relationships rather than traditional advertising.