A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Dallas, Texas
February 25, 2021
Item 9B.
section_9B: Item 9B. Other Information
None.
PART III
Item 10.
section_10: Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
The information required by this Item is herein incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement relating to the 2021 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after December 31, 2020.
Item 11.
section_11: Item 11. Executive Compensation
The information required by this Item is herein incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement relating to the 2021 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after December 31, 2020.
Item 12.
section_12: Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
Information with Respect to Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans
The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2020, information with respect to (a) the number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights, (b) the weighted average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights and (c) the number of securities remaining available for future issuance, in each case under our 2016 Stock Incentive Plan or 2018 Stock Incentive Plan. We do not have any equity compensation plans not approved by security holders.
All other information required by this Item is herein incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement relating to the 2021 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after December 31, 2020.
Item 13.
section_13: Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
The information required by this Item is herein incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement relating to the 2021 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after December 31, 2020.
Item 14.
section_14: Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services
The information required by this Item is herein incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement relating to the 2021 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after December 31, 2020.
PART IV
Item 15.
section_15: Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or incorporated herein by reference:
1. Financial Statements. The Company's financial statements are included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
2. Financial Statement Schedules. All schedules are omitted since they are not applicable, not required, or the information required to be set forth herein is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
3. Exhibits. The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately below are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or are incorporated by reference herein.
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary
None.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
FORTERRA, INC.
(Registrant)
/s/ Karl Watson, Jr. February 25, 2021
By:Karl Watson, Jr.
Chief Executive Officer
(Principal Executive Officer)
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.