The Company evaluates the recoverability of its deferred tax assets quarterly to determine if valuation allowances are required or should be adjusted. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, the Company considers all available evidence for each jurisdiction, including past operating results, future reversal of taxable and deductible temporary differences, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. The measurement of a deferred tax asset is reduced, if necessary, by a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
The Company recognizes a tax benefit for uncertain tax positions only if it believes it is more-likely-than-not that the position will be sustained upon examination based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. The Company evaluates whether a tax position meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold using the assumption that the position will be examined by the appropriate taxing authority. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are measured based upon the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. Penalties and interest related to income tax uncertainties, should they occur, are included in income tax expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Revenue recognition
Revenues are recognized when the risks and rewards associated with the transaction have been transferred to the purchaser, which is demonstrated when all the following conditions are met: evidence of a binding arrangement exists, products have been delivered or services have been rendered, there is no future performance required, fees are fixed or determinable and amounts are collectible under normal payment terms. Sales represent the net amounts charged or chargeable in respect of services rendered and goods supplied, excluding intercompany sales. Sales are recognized net of any discounts given to the customer.
A portion of our sales revenue is derived from sales to distributors. Distributor revenue is recognized when all of the criteria for revenue recognition are met, which is generally the time of shipment to the distributor. All returns and credits are estimable and recognized as contra-revenue.
We incur shipping costs to third parties for the transportation of building products and bill such costs to customers. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we recorded freight costs of approximately $122.7 million, $131.8 million, and $127.0 million, respectively, on a gross basis within net sales and cost of goods sold in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
For certain engineering and construction contracts and building contracting arrangements, we recognize revenue using the percentage of completion method, based on total contract costs incurred to date compared to total estimated cost at completion for each contract. Changes to total estimated contract cost or losses, if any, are recognized in the period in which they are determined. Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred. If estimated total costs on a contract indicate a loss, the entire loss is provided for in the financial statements immediately. To the extent we have invoiced and collected from customers more revenue than has been recognized as revenue using the percentage of completion method, we record the excess amount invoiced as deferred revenue. Revenue recognized in excess of amounts billed, and balances billed but not yet paid by customers under retainage provisions are classified as a current asset within receivables, net on the balance sheet. For the years ended December 31, 2020, December 31, 2019, and December 31, 2018, revenue recognized in continuing operations using the percentage of completion method amounted to 3%, 2%, and 1% of total net sales, respectively.
We generally provide limited warranties related to our products which cover manufacturing in accordance with the specifications identified on the face of our quotation or order acknowledgment and to be free of defects in workmanship or materials. The warranty periods typically extend for a limited duration of one year. We estimate and accrue for potential warranty exposure related to products which have been delivered.
Recent Accounting Guidance Adopted
The information set forth under Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements under the caption “Recent Accounting Guidance Adopted” is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7A.
section_7A: Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
In the normal course of business, we are exposed to financial risks such as changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity price risk associated with our input costs. We utilize derivative instruments to manage selected foreign exchange and interest rate exposures. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.
Interest Rate Risk
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our long-term debt. The interest expense associated with our long-term debt will vary with market rates. On March 30, 2020, Forterra entered into an interest rate swap transaction with a notional value of $400 million to reduce exposure to interest rate fluctuations associated with a portion of the Term Loan. Under the terms of the swap transaction, Forterra agreed to pay a fixed rate of interest of 1.08% and receive floating rate of interest indexed to one-month LIBOR, subject to a minimum of 1.00%, with monthly settlement terms with the swap counterparty. The swap has a 30-month term and expires on September 30, 2022. At December 31, 2020, we estimate that 1% increase in the rates relating to the portion of our floating rate debt that is not hedged would increase annual interest requirements by approximately $5.1 million.
Borrowings under our Term Loan and our Revolver may use LIBOR as a benchmark for establishing the applicable interest rate. LIBOR is the subject of recent regulatory guidance and proposals for reform, which are expected to ultimately lead to the discontinuation of LIBOR or to cause LIBOR to become unavailable as a benchmark rate. The consequences of these developments with respect to LIBOR cannot be entirely predicted but could result in a significant increase in the cost of our variable rate indebtedness causing a negative impact on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. We plan to carefully monitor the situation and may seek
to renegotiate the benchmark for establishing the applicable interest rate with our lenders in the future. See Item 1A. "Risk Factors."
Foreign Currency Risk
Approximately 5.1% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 were made in countries outside of the U.S. As a result, we are exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies. Based upon our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2020, we estimate that a 1% change in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies would affect net sales by approximately $0.8 million. This may differ from actual results depending on the levels of net sales outside of the U.S.
Commodity Price Risk
We are subject to commodity price risks with respect to price changes mainly in the electricity and natural gas markets and other raw material costs, such as cement, aggregates, scrap and steel. Price fluctuations on our key inputs have a significant effect on our financial performance. The markets for most of these commodities are cyclical and are affected by factors such as global economic conditions, changes in or disruptions to industry production capacity, changes in inventory levels and other factors beyond our control.
Credit Risk
Financial instruments that potentially subject us to a concentration of credit risk consist principally of accounts receivable. We provide our products to customers based on an evaluation of the financial condition of our customers, generally without requiring collateral. Exposure to losses on receivables is principally dependent on each customer's financial condition. We monitor the exposure for credit losses and maintain allowances for anticipated losses. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to our accounts receivable are limited due to the large number of customers comprising our customer base and their dispersion among many different geographies.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had an individual customer within our Water Pipe & Products segment that accounted for more than 10% of total net sales for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. The customer represented approximately 16% and 15% of our total net sales for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and had total receivables at December 31, 2020 and 2019 totaling 16% and 13% of our total receivables, net, respectively.
Item 8.
section_8: Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Consolidated Financial Statements
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm67
Consolidated Statements of Operations69
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)70
Consolidated Balance Sheets71
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity72
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows73
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements74
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Forterra, Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Forterra, Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), shareholders’ equity and cash flows for the each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework), and our report dated February 25, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of a critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the account or disclosure to which it relates.
Realizability of deferred tax assets
Description of the Matter