The Merger Agreement contains certain provisions giving each of Parent and the Company rights to terminate the Merger Agreement under certain circumstances, including the right for either Parent or the Company to terminate the Merger Agreement if the Merger has not been consummated on or before November 19, 2021, which date will be automatically extended for up to two additional 60-day periods in specified circumstances as described in the Merger Agreement (such date, as may be so extended pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the “Outside Date”). Upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, the Company will be required to pay Parent a termination fee of $50 million. The Merger Agreement further provides that Parent will be required to pay the Company a reverse termination fee of $85 million under certain circumstances if the Merger Agreement is terminated due to the failure of the parties to obtain required approvals under Antitrust Laws (as defined in the Merger Agreement) prior to the Outside Date or as a result of a Restraint (as defined in the Merger Agreement) arising under applicable Antitrust Laws.
If the Merger is consummated, the shares of Common Stock will be delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC and deregistered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
2. Summary of significant accounting policies
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts and results of operations of Forterra, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
Basis of Presentation
The consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (‘‘U.S. GAAP’’). Certain prior year numbers have been reclassified to conform to current year presentations.
Business Combinations
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combination transactions, as defined by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 805, Business Combination, are recorded at fair value using the acquisition method of accounting. The Company allocates the purchase price of acquisitions based upon the fair value of each component which may be derived from various observable and unobservable inputs and assumptions. Initial purchase price allocations are preliminary and subject to revision within the measurement period, not to exceed one year from the date of the transaction. The fair value of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets may be based upon the discounted cash flow method that involves inputs that are not observable in the market (Level 3). Goodwill assigned represents the amount of consideration transferred in excess of the fair value assigned to identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Use of estimates
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the reporting date, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. These estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and actions that the Company may undertake in the future. The more significant estimates made by management relate to fair value estimates for assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations; estimates for accrued liabilities for environmental cleanup, bodily injury and insurance claims; estimates for commitments and contingencies; and estimates for the realizability of deferred tax assets, the tax receivable agreement obligation, inventory reserves, allowance for doubtful accounts and impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets.
Certain accounting matters that generally require consideration of forecasted financial information were assessed in light of the impact from the coronavirus disease 2019 ("COVID-19") pandemic. The accounting matters assessed included, but were not limited to, the Company’s allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory reserves, goodwill impairment, impairment of property and equipment and valuation allowances for tax assets. While the assessments resulted in no material impacts to the Company’s consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company believes the full impact of the COVID-19 outbreak remains uncertain and will continue to assess if ongoing developments related to the outbreak may cause future material impacts to its consolidated financial statements.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and other highly liquid investments having an original maturity of less than three months.
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
Receivables, net
Receivables are recorded at net realizable value, which includes allowances for doubtful accounts. The Company reviews the collectability of trade receivables on an ongoing basis. The Company reserves for trade receivables determined to be uncollectible. This determination is based on the delinquency of the account, the financial condition of the customer and the Company’s collection experience.
Concentration of credit risk
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk are primarily receivables. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers’ financial condition and generally requires no collateral from its customers. The allowances for uncollectible receivables are based upon analysis of economic trends in the construction industry, detailed analysis of the expected collectibility of accounts receivable that are past due and the expected collectibility of overall receivables.
The Company had an individual customer within its Water Pipe & Products segment that accounted for approximately 16% and 15% of the Company's total net sales for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and total receivables at December 31, 2020 and 2019 representing 16% and 13% of the Company's total receivables, net, respectively.
Credit Losses
Trade accounts receivable. The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on the Company’s assessment of the collectability of customer accounts. The Company regularly reviews the allowance by considering factors such as historical experience, credit quality, the age of the accounts receivable balances, and current economic conditions that may affect a customer’s ability to pay.
The Company's exposure to credit losses may increase if one or more of its customers are adversely affected by changes in laws or other government recommendations or mandates, economic pressures or uncertainty associated with local or global economic recessions, disruption or other impacts associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, or other customer-specific factors. Although the Company has historically not experienced significant credit losses, it is possible that there could be a material adverse impact from potential adjustments of the carrying amount of trade receivables as customers are impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Concentration of Labor
Approximately 33% of the Company’s employees are represented by collective bargaining agreements, and 24% of these employees are included in collective bargaining agreements that expire within 12 months.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. The Company’s inventories are valued using the average cost and first-in-first-out methods. Inventories include materials, labor and applicable factory overhead costs. The value of inventory is adjusted for damaged, obsolete, excess and slow-moving inventory. Market value of inventory is estimated considering the impact of market trends, an evaluation of economic conditions, and the value of current orders relating to the future sales of each respective component of inventory.
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
Property, plant and equipment, net
Property, plant and equipment, which includes amounts recorded under capital lease arrangements, is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. These lives range from 20 to 40 years for buildings, 4 to 20 years for machinery and equipment, and 5 to 10 years for other equipment and lower of lease term or useful life on leasehold improvements. Repair and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. The Company’s depreciation expense is recorded in cost of goods sold and selling, general and administrative expenses in the statements of operations. The Company capitalizes interest during the active construction of major projects. Capitalized interest is added to the cost of the underlying assets and is depreciated over the useful lives of those assets. There was no interest capitalized for any of the periods presented in the financial statements.
Impairment or disposal of long-lived assets
The Company evaluates the recoverability of its long-lived assets in accordance with the provisions of ASC 360, Property, Plant and Equipment (“ASC 360”). ASC 360 requires that long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. Such evaluations for impairment are significantly impacted by estimates of future prices for the Company’s products, capital needs, economic trends in the construction sector and other factors. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured at the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds their fair value.
Leases
The Company has both capital and finance leases. The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet. Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use (“ROU”) assets, accrued liabilities, and long-term operating lease liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. Finance leases are included in property, plant and equipment, accrued liabilities, and long-term finance lease liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent the Company's obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of the Company’s leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. The Company uses the implicit rate when readily determinable. The lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise that option. Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Company has lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for separately. For machinery and equipment leases, such as forklifts, the Company accounts for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
Minimum rent payments under operating leases are recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, including any rent-free periods. Operating lease expenses for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 were approximately $15.6 million, $16.5 million and $24.3 million, respectively.
Goodwill and other intangible assets, net
Goodwill represents the excess of costs over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The Company evaluates goodwill and intangible assets in accordance with ASC 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“ASC 350”). ASC 350 requires goodwill to be either qualitatively or quantitatively
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements