Additionally, certain regions or states may require or possess the means to finance only a limited number of large infrastructure projects and periods of high demand may be followed by years of little to no activity. There can be no assurances that governments will sustain or increase current infrastructure spending and tax incentive and other subsidy levels, and any reductions thereto or delays therein could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Residential and non-residential construction activity is cyclical and influenced by many factors, and any reduction in the activity in one or both of these markets could have a material adverse effect on us.
Historically, demand for our products has been closely tied to residential construction and non-residential construction in the United States and Eastern Canada. Our success and future growth prospects depend, to a significant extent, on conditions in these two markets and the degree to which these markets are strong in the future.
The construction industry and related markets are cyclical and have in the past been, and may in the future be, materially and adversely affected by general economic and global financial market conditions. These factors impact not only our business, but those of our customers and suppliers as well. This influence is true with respect to macroeconomic factors within North America, particularly within our geographic footprint in the United States and Eastern Canada. For example, in 2008, residential construction and non-residential construction activity dipped to historically low levels during the financial crisis. As a result, demand for many of our products dropped significantly.
The markets in the construction industry in which we operate are also subject to other more specific factors. Residential construction activity levels are influenced by and sensitive to a number of factors, including mortgage availability, the cost of financing a home (in particular, mortgage terms and interest rates), unemployment levels, household formation rates, gross domestic product, residential vacancy and foreclosure rates, demand for second homes, existing housing prices, rental prices, housing inventory levels, building mix between single- and multi-family homes, consumer confidence, seasonal weather factors, the available labor pool and government regulation, policy and incentives. Non-residential construction activity is primarily driven by levels of business investment, availability of credit and interest rates, as well as many of the factors that impact residential construction activity levels.
We cannot control the foregoing factors, we cannot be certain that residential and non-residential construction activity will remain at current levels, and there can be no assurances regarding whether any growth in these markets can be sustained. If construction activity in our markets, and more generally, does remain at
current levels, or if there are future downturns, whether locally, regionally or nationally, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We engage in a highly competitive business and any failure to effectively compete could have a material adverse effect on us.
The markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive. We face significant competition from, depending on the segment or product, domestic and imported products produced by local, regional, national and international building product manufacturers, as well as privately owned single-site enterprises. Due in part to the costs associated with transporting our products to our customers, many of our sub-markets are relatively fragmented and include a number of regional competitors. Our competitors include Rinker Materials (a division of QUIKRETE) and Oldcastle Infrastructure (a division of CRH plc), as well as numerous regional and local competitors, in our Drainage Pipe & Products segment and McWane, Inc. and American Cast Iron Pipe Company in our Water Pipe & Products segment, particularly with respect to DIP.
Competition among manufacturers in our markets is based on many factors with significant emphasis on price. Our competitors may sell their products at lower prices because, among other things, they possess the ability to manufacture or supply similar products and services more efficiently or at a lower cost or have built a superior sales or distribution network. Some of our competitors may have access to greater financial or other resources than we do, which may afford them greater purchasing power, greater production efficiency, increased financial flexibility or more capital resources for expansion and improvement. In addition, some of our competitors are vertically integrated with suppliers or distributors and can leverage this structure to their advantage to offer better pricing to customers. Furthermore, our competitors’ actions, including restoring idled or expanding manufacturing capacity, or the entry of new competitors into one or more of our markets, particularly in the Drainage business where there are low barriers to entry, could cause us to lower prices in an effort to maintain our customer base. For example, the pricing impact of a new competitor entering the Houston, Texas Drainage market in 2017 had a negative impact on revenues. Certain of our products, including gravity pipe, are volume manufacturing products that are widely available from other manufacturers or distributors, with prices and volumes determined frequently based on participants’ perceptions of short-term supply and demand. Competitive factors, including industry overcapacity, could also lead to pricing pressures. For example, competitors may choose to pursue a volume policy to continue utilizing their manufacturing facilities or in attempt to gain market share, each to the detriment of maintaining prices. Excess product supply can result in significant declines in the market prices for these products, often within a short period of time. As a result, at times, to remain competitive, we may lower the price for any one or more of our products to or below our production costs, requiring us to sacrifice margins or incur losses. Alternatively, we may choose to forgo product sales or cease production at one or more of our manufacturing facilities. Conversely, at times when prices are maintained at higher levels, there is greater risk that foreign competitors may enter one or more of our markets, particularly with respect to DIP.
In addition to pricing, we also compete based on service, quality, range of products and product availability. Our competitors may be positioned to provide better service and thereby establish stronger relationships with customers and suppliers. Our competitors may also sell preferred products, improve the design and performance of their products, develop a more comprehensive product portfolio, be better positioned to influence end-user product specifications or introduce new products with competitive prices and performance characteristics. While the majority of our products are not subject to frequent or rapid stylistic changes, trends do evolve over time, and our competitors may do a better job of predicting market developments or adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements.
We also face competition from substitute and newly designed building products. For example, storm water pipe can be manufactured from concrete, steel, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), polypropylene (PP) or polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and potable water transmission infrastructure can be manufactured using HDPE or PVC. The market share of HDPE and PP pipe, which compete with gravity pipe and concrete pressure pipe for certain applications, and HDPE and PVC pipe, which compete with DIP for certain applications, have increased in recent years. Governments in the past have, and may continue in the future, to provide incentives that support or encourage, or in certain instances pass regulations that require, the consideration or use of substitute products with which we compete. Lower costs and pricing of substitute products may challenge our ability to achieve
pricing for our products at a level that is consistent with our business plans. Some of the substitute products with which we compete may also offer longer warranties than our typical product warranty, and we may face competitive pressures to offer longer warranties on our products, which could increase our exposure to claims in future years or cause us to lose business. Additionally, new construction techniques and materials will likely be developed in the future. Increases in customer or market preferences for any of these products could lead to a reduction in demand for our products, limit our ability to raise prices or otherwise adversely impact our competitive position.
Any failure by us to compete on price or service, to develop successful products and strategies or to generally maintain and improve our competitive position could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Changes in construction activity levels in Texas could have a material adverse effect on us.
We currently conduct a significant portion of our business in Texas, which we estimate represented approximately 18% and 20% of our 2020 and 2019 net sales, respectively. Government-funded infrastructure spending, as well as residential and non-residential construction activity in each of these areas has declined from time to time, particularly as a result of slow economic growth, whether in the energy industry or otherwise. Local economic conditions depend on a variety of factors, including national economic conditions, local and state budgets, infrastructure spending and the impact of federal cutbacks. In addition, Texas is susceptible to severe weather and flooding, which can interrupt, delay or otherwise impact the timing of projects. Any decrease in construction activity in Texas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
A tightening of mortgage lending or mortgage financing requirements or other reductions in the availability of consumer credit or increases in its cost could have a material adverse effect on us.
We depend on net sales generated from residential construction activity. Most home sales in the U.S. and Eastern Canada are financed through mortgage loans, and a significant percentage of renovation and other home repair activity is financed either through mortgage loans or other available credit. The financial crisis affected the financial position of many consumers and caused financial institutions to tighten their lending criteria, each of which contributed to a significant reduction in the availability of consumer credit. These developments resulted in a significant reduction in total new housing starts in the U.S. and consequently, a reduction in demand for our products in the residential sector. Similarly, the rate of interest payable on any mortgage or other form of credit will have an impact on the cost of borrowing. While base rates have remained relatively low in recent years, they may rise in the future, which would increase the cost of borrowing, making the purchase of a home less attractive, which could reduce the number of new housing starts in the U.S. and Eastern Canada. Any future tightening of mortgage lending or other reductions in the availability of consumer credit or increases in its cost could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Risks Related to Our Business
Our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price have been and in the future may be adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Our operations and business have been adversely affected and could in the future be materially and adversely affected, whether directly or indirectly, by the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting weakening of economic conditions in the United States and eastern Canada. Local, state, provincial and federal governmental authorities initially responded to the pandemic by implementing increasingly stringent measures in geographies where we operate to help control the spread of the virus, including restrictions on movement such as quarantines, “shelter in place,” “stay at home” orders, and travel restrictions, as well as restricting or prohibiting outright some or all forms of commercial and business activity, and other restrictions, including closures of school and childcare facilities. Certain states have also enacted regulations that authorize local officials to close businesses where there if a lack of safety precautions in place or signs that transmission of the virus at the workplace has occurred.