We operate production facilities in Canada and Mexico and we are therefore subject to a number of risks specific to these countries. These risks include social, political and economic instability, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, currency exchange fluctuations, acts of war or terrorism and import/export requirements. In addition, we have a limited number of sales to other foreign jurisdictions, primarily concentrated in the Dominican Republic and Bolivia. Our consolidated financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars with international transactions being translated into U.S. dollars. If the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to the Canadian dollar, our U.S. dollar reported net sales and income will decrease. Additionally, since we incur costs in foreign currencies, fluctuation in those currencies’ value can negatively impact manufacturing and selling costs. See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” There can be no
assurances that any of these factors will not materially impact our production cost or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Changes in tax laws could adversely affect us.
We regularly assess our future ability to utilize tax benefits, including those in the form of net operating loss, tax credit and other tax carryforwards, that are recorded as deferred income tax assets on our balance sheets to determine whether a valuation allowance is necessary. A reduction in, or disallowance of, these tax benefits resulting from a legislative change or adverse determination by a taxing jurisdiction could have an adverse impact on our financial results and liquidity.
Changes in corporate tax rates, the realizability of the net deferred tax assets relating to our U.S. operations, the taxation of foreign earnings and the deductibility of expenses contained in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, or the TCJA, or other tax reform legislation, including the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act of 2020, (“CARES Act”), could have a material impact on the value of our deferred tax assets, could result in significant one-time charges and could increase our future U.S. tax expense. See Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements.
Significant judgment is required in determining our domestic and international provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. While we believe our tax positions are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, it is possible these positions may be contested or overturned by jurisdictional tax authorities, which may have a significant impact on our tax provision for income taxes. Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the laws are issued or applied.
Insufficient insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us.
We maintain property, business interruption, counterparty and liability insurance coverage that we believe is consistent with industry practice. However, our insurance program does not cover, or may not adequately cover, every potential risk associated with our business and the consequences thereof. In addition, market conditions or any significant claim or a number of claims made by or against us could cause our premiums and deductibles to increase substantially and, in some instances, our coverage may be reduced or become entirely unavailable. In the future, we may not be able to obtain meaningful coverage at reasonable rates for a variety of risks, including certain types of environmental hazards and ongoing regulatory compliance. In addition, we self-insure a portion of our exposure to certain matters, including employee health care claims of up to $500,000 per covered individual per year and wage-payment obligations for short-term disability. If our insurance coverage is insufficient, if we are not able to obtain sufficient coverage in the future, or if we are exposed to significant losses as a result of the risks for which we self-insure, any resulting costs or liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective, and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to their effectiveness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation.
As a public company, we are required to comply with the SEC’s rules implementing Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which require management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of our control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm is also required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404.
Although we currently do not have any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we have historically experienced such material weaknesses. To remediate our prior material weaknesses, we have needed to undertake various actions, such as implementing additional internal controls and procedures and hiring additional accounting or internal audit staff, and we may need to do so in the future to maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and other controls. Testing and maintaining internal control can
divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to the operation of our business. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected, and we could become subject to investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources.
We are a holding company and depend on the cash flow of our subsidiaries.
We are a holding company with no material assets other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets and intellectual property. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations and pay any future dividends to our stockholders depends upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and their ability to make payments, directly or indirectly, to us in the form of dividends, distributions and other payments. Any inability on the part of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Risks Relating to our Indebtedness and Liquidity
The terms of our debt could have a material adverse effect on us.
We have substantial debt and may incur additional debt. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $914.9 million of total debt. Our credit facility contains a number of significant restrictions and covenants that generally restrict our business and limit our ability to, among other things:
•dispose of certain assets;
•incur or guarantee additional indebtedness;
•enter into new lines of business;
•make investments, intercompany loans or certain payments in respect of indebtedness;
•incur or maintain certain liens;
•enter into transactions with affiliates;
•engage in certain sale and leaseback transactions;
•declare or pay dividends and make other restricted payments, including the repurchase or redemption of our stock; and
•engage in mergers, consolidations, liquidations and certain asset sales.
In addition, our ability to borrow under the Revolver is limited by the amount of the borrowing base applicable to U.S. dollar and Canadian dollar borrowings. Any negative impact on the elements of our borrowing base, such as eligible accounts receivable and inventory, will reduce our borrowing capacity under the Revolver. Moreover, the Revolver provides discretion to the agent bank acting on behalf of the lenders to impose additional requirements on what accounts receivable and inventory may be counted toward the borrowing base availability, and to impose other reserves, which could materially impair the amount of borrowings that would otherwise be available to us. The credit facility also requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for more information regarding the terms of our credit facility and the indenture governing our senior secured notes dues due 2025. We are also party to a U.S. and a Canadian master lease under which we currently pay an aggregate of $17.1 million and $1.2 million (CAD) per annum, respectively, to lease certain properties through June 30, 2043. Each of these master lease agreements contain certain restrictions and covenants that limit, among other things, our use of and ability to sublease or discontinue use of the leased properties, our ability to consider strategic divestitures of properties that are leased and our ability to consolidate operations as may be appropriate in order to minimize operating costs. See Note 15 in our consolidated financial statements.
These and other similar provisions in these and other documents could have adverse consequences on our business and to our investors because they limit our ability to take these actions even if we believe that it would contribute to our future growth or improve our operating results. For example, these restrictions could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and our industry, thereby inhibiting our ability to react to markets and potentially making us more vulnerable to downturns. These restrictions could also require that, based on our level of indebtedness, a significant portion of our cash flow from operations be used to make interest payments, thereby reducing the cash flow available for working capital, to fund capital expenditures or other corporate purposes and to generally grow our business. Furthermore, these restrictions could prevent us from pursuing a strategic transaction that we believe would benefit our company.
Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of these provisions or any inability to comply with mandated financial ratios could result in a default, in which case the counterparties may have the right to declare all borrowings or other amounts due thereunder to be immediately due and payable. If we are unable to pay any amounts when due, whether periodic payments, at maturity or if declared due and payable following a default, the counterparties would have the right to proceed against the pledged collateral securing the indebtedness. Therefore, the restrictions under these agreements and any breach of the covenants or failure to otherwise comply with the terms thereof could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our current indebtedness and any future indebtedness we may incur could have a material adverse effect on us.
We expect that we will depend primarily on cash generated by our operations to pay our expenses and any amounts due under our credit facility and any other indebtedness we may incur. However, our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future and any anticipated growth in revenues and cash flows may not be realized, either or both of which could result in us being unable to repay indebtedness or our inability to fund other liquidity or strategic needs. Our ability to make these payments depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we do not have sufficient liquidity, we may be required to refinance all or part of our then existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money.