There can be no assurances the labor pool from which we or the contractors with whom we work hire will increase or remain stable, nor that we will be able to control labor costs. Any failure by us or the contractors with which we work to retain our existing personnel or attract and train additional qualified personnel at reasonable costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Miscellaneous Business Risks
Cybersecurity attacks may threaten our confidential information, disrupt operations and result in harm to our reputation and adversely impact our business and financial performance.
Cybersecurity attacks across industries, including ours, are increasing in sophistication and frequency and may range from uncoordinated individual attempts to measures targeted specifically at us. These attacks include but are not limited to, malicious software or viruses, attempts to gain unauthorized access to, or otherwise disrupt, our information systems, attempts to gain unauthorized access to business, proprietary or other confidential information, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Cybersecurity failures may be caused by employee error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities, including vulnerabilities of our vendors, suppliers, and their products. We have been subject to cybersecurity attacks in the past, including breaches of our IT systems that exposed certain confidential business information as well as ransomware attacks on non-critical business systems. Based on information known to date, past attacks have not had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may experience these and different types of attacks in the future, potentially with more frequency or sophistication.
Failures of our IT systems as a result of cybersecurity attacks or other disruptions could result in a breach of critical operational or financial controls and lead to a disruption of our operations, commercial activities or financial processes. Cybersecurity attacks or other disruptions impacting significant customers and/or suppliers could also lead to a disruption of our operations or commercial activities. Despite our attempts to safeguard our systems and mitigate potential risks, there is no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent cyberattacks or security breaches that manipulate or improperly use our systems or networks, compromise confidential or otherwise protected information, destroy or corrupt data, or otherwise disrupt our operations. The occurrence of such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Legal and regulatory claims and proceedings could have a material adverse effect on us.
We are subject to claims, litigation and regulatory proceedings in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. For example, we have been, and may in the future be, subject to claims for product liability, construction defects, project delay, personal injury, property and other damages as well as allegations regarding compliance with mandated product specifications. Claims and proceedings, whether or not they have merit and regardless of the outcome, are typically expensive and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time. Additionally, claims and proceedings can impact customer confidence and the general public’s perception of our company and products, even if the underlying assertions are proven to be false.
We are also currently a defendant, together with several of our current and former officers and directors, in a shareholder derivative suit, and in the past have been a defendant in other similar suits, each filed by plaintiffs seeking damages against the Company for allegations of violations of United States laws regulating securities, as discussed in greater detail in Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," and Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements. Lawsuits involving us, or our current or former officers and directors, could result in significant expense and divert attention and resources of our management and other key employees. In addition to any damages we may be required to pay, we are generally obligated to indemnify our current and former directors and officers in connection with lawsuits and related settlement amounts. Such amounts could exceed the coverage provided under our insurance policies.
While we have established reserves we believe to be reasonable under the facts known, the outcomes of litigation and similar disputes are often difficult to reliably predict and may result in decisions or settlements that are contrary to, or in excess of, our expectations, and losses may exceed our reserves. In addition, various factors and developments could lead us to make changes in our current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables or make new or modified estimates as a result of a judicial ruling or judgment, settlement, regulatory development or change in applicable law. Any claims or proceedings, particularly those in which we are unsuccessful or for which we did not establish adequate reserves, could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Any inability to successfully acquire businesses in the future could have a material adverse effect on us.
Historically we have grown in large part as a result of acquisitions and our business plan continues to provide for growth in part through acquisitions and joint ventures. Although we expect to regularly consider additional strategic transactions in the future, there can be no assurances that we will identify suitable acquisition, joint venture or other investment opportunities or, if we do, that any transaction can be consummated on acceptable terms. Antitrust or other competition laws may also limit our ability to acquire, or work collaboratively with, certain businesses or to fully realize the benefits of a prospective acquisition or joint venture. Furthermore, changes in our business or the economy, an unexpected decrease in our cash flows or any restrictions imposed by our debt may limit our ability to obtain the necessary capital or otherwise impede our ability to complete a transaction. Regularly considering strategic transactions can also divert management’s attention and lead to significant due diligence and other expenses regardless of whether we pursue or consummate any transaction. Failure to identify suitable transaction partners and to consummate transactions on acceptable terms, as well as the commitment of time and resources in connection with such transactions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The consummation of an acquisition also exposes us to significant risks and additional costs. We may not accurately assess the value, strengths, weaknesses or potential profitability of an acquisition target. Furthermore, we may not be able to fully or successfully integrate an acquired business or realize the expected benefits and synergies following an acquisition. Business and operational overlaps may lead to hidden costs. These costs can include unforeseen pre-acquisition liabilities or the impairment of customer relationships or certain acquired assets such as inventory and goodwill. We may also incur costs and inefficiencies to the extent an acquisition expands the industries, markets or geographies in which we operate due to our limited exposure to and experience in a given industry, market or region. Significant acquisitions may also require that we incur additional debt to finance the transaction, which could be substantial and limit our flexibility in using our cash flow from
operations for other purposes. Acquisitions can also involve post-transaction disputes with the counterparty regarding a number of matters, including a purchase price or other working capital adjustment or liabilities for which we believe we were indemnified under the relevant transaction agreements, such as environmental liabilities or pension or benefit obligations retained by the seller, including certain environmental and benefit obligations in connection with our U.S. Pipe Acquisition and certain pension obligations we assumed pursuant to the Acquisition and our acquisition of Cretex. For example, as discussed in greater detail in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” we are currently engaged in a dispute with HeidelbergCement regarding the earnout provision in the purchase agreement entered into in connection with the Acquisition. We are also engaged in other indemnification and other post-closing disputes with certain of our transaction counterparties. Our inability to realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition as well as other transaction-related issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
In July 2012, we entered into a joint venture agreement with Americast, Inc., now known as Eagle Corporation, to form Concrete Pipe & Precast LLC. From time to time, we may enter into additional joint ventures as part of our growth strategy. The nature of a joint venture requires us to share control with unaffiliated third parties. If our joint venture partners do not fulfill their contractual and other obligations, the affected joint venture may be unable to operate according to its business plan, and we may be required to increase our level of commitment. Differences in views among joint venture participants could also result in delays in business decisions or otherwise, failures to agree on major issues, operational inefficiencies and impasses, litigation or other issues. Third parties may also seek to hold us liable for the joint ventures’ liabilities. These issues or any other difficulties that cause a joint venture to deviate from its original business plan could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Any inability to protect our intellectual property or claims that we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others could have a material adverse effect on us.
We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade names, confidentiality and nondisclosure clauses and agreements, and other unregistered rights to define and protect our rights to our brand and the intellectual property used in certain of our products, including the innovative technologies relating to storm water management acquired in the Bio Clean Acquisition. We also rely on product, industry, manufacturing and market “know-how” that cannot be registered and may not be subject to any confidentiality or nondisclosure clauses or agreements. However, we cannot guarantee that any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights or our know-how, or claims thereto, will now or in the future successfully protect our intellectual property , or that our rights will not be circumvented or successfully opposed or otherwise challenged. We also cannot guarantee that applications filed will be approved. To the extent that our intellectual property rights are not sufficient, third parties, including competitors, may be able to commercialize our innovations or products or use our know-how. Additionally, we have faced in the past and may in the future face claims that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of others, including with respect to both existing and new technologies we use. If any of our products are found to infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of others, our manufacture and sale of such products could be significantly restricted or prohibited and we may be required to pay substantial damages or on-going licensing fees. Any inability to protect our intellectual property rights or any misappropriation of the intellectual property of others could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our foreign operations could have a material adverse effect on us.