Net cash used in financing activities was $234.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 due primarily to $707.6 million repayments of principal on the Term Loan, $13.1 million payments pursuant to the tax receivable agreement, and $11.4 million payment of debt issuance costs, partially offset by proceeds from senior secured notes of $500.0 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $106.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 due primarily to $95.7 million of repayments of principal on the Term Loan and a $11.4 million payment pursuant to the tax receivable agreement. Net cash used in financing activities was $43.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 due primarily to the payment of $30.4 million under our tax receivable agreement. The $30.4 million payment under the tax receivable agreement in 2018, pertaining to the 2017 tax year, included the impact of accelerated payments as a result of certain transactions completed in 2017, including the sale of the U.S. concrete and steel pressure pipe business, that caused an acceleration of tax benefits subject to the tax receivable agreement. The $11.4 million payment under the tax receivable agreement in 2019 was pertaining to the 2018 tax year.
Secondary Public Offering
On September 21, 2020, Forterra US Holdings, LLC (the “Selling Stockholder”), an affiliate of Lone Star, sold 10,000,000 shares of our common stock at $13.50 per share. The Selling Stockholder also granted the underwriters an option for a period of 30 days to purchase up to an additional 1,500,000 shares of our common stock. On October 13, 2020, the underwriters exercised their option to purchase an additional 200,000 shares of our common stock. As a result of the sale, the aggregate beneficial ownership of Lone Star decreased from 68.9% to 53.2% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of October 13, 2020, and we remain a “controlled company” within the meaning of Nasdaq corporate governance standards. We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of the common stock by the Selling Stockholder.
Capital Expenditures
Under normal circumstances, our annual sustaining capital expenditures would average $45.0 million to $55.0 million. However, as a precautionary measure in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and in order to preserve liquidity, we delayed some non-essential capital spending projects during the second quarter. During the third quarter, given the improvements in cash generation and liquidity, we resumed capital spending projects.
Our capital expenditures were $34.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, $42.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, and $48.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. We expect capital expenditures to be higher than usual in 2021 due to certain pandemic-delayed projects being completed in 2021. The majority of our planned capital spending now is related to equipment, such as plant and mobile equipment, upgrade and expansion of existing facilities, and environmental and permit compliance projects.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
In the ordinary course of our business, we are required to provide surety bonds and standby letters of credit to secure performance commitments. As of December 31, 2020, outstanding stand-by letters of credit amounted to $16.7 million.
Contractual Obligations and Other Long-Term Liabilities
The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations as of December 31, 2020. Non-cancelable operating leases are presented net of non-cancelable subleases. Some of the amounts included in the table are based on management's estimate and assumptions about these obligations, including their duration, the possibility of renewal, anticipated actions by third parties and other factors. Because these estimates and assumptions are necessarily subjective, our actual payments may vary from those reflected in the table.
(1) The interest rate on the Term loan is 4.0%; the interest rate on the Notes is 6.5%.
Additionally, we have accrued approximately $55.9 million associated with the tax receivable agreement in long-term liabilities and $36.9 million of other long-term liabilities as of December 31, 2020. The risks and uncertainties associated with the tax receivable agreement are discussed above and in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Business Combinations
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combination transactions, as defined by ASC 805, Business Combination, are recorded at fair value using the acquisition method of accounting. We allocate the purchase price of acquisitions based upon the fair value of each component which may be derived from various observable and unobservable inputs and assumptions. Initial purchase price allocations are preliminary and subject to revision within the measurement period, not to exceed one year from the date of the transaction. The fair value of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets may be based upon the discounted cash flow method that involves inputs that are not observable in the market (Level 3). Goodwill assigned represents the amount of consideration transferred in excess of the fair value assigned to identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Use of estimates
The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the reporting date, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. These estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and actions that the Company may undertake in the future. The more significant estimates made relate to fair value estimates for assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations; accrued liabilities for environmental cleanup, bodily injury and insurance claims; estimates for commitments and contingencies; and estimates for the realizability of deferred tax assets, the tax receivable agreement obligation, inventory reserves, allowance for doubtful accounts and impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Our inventories are valued using the average cost and first-in-first-out methods. Inventories include materials, labor and applicable factory overhead costs. The value of inventory is adjusted for damaged, obsolete, excess and slow-moving inventory. Market value of inventory is estimated considering the impact of market trends, an evaluation of economic conditions, and the value of current orders relating to the future sales of each respective component of inventory.
Goodwill and other intangible assets, net
Goodwill represents the excess of costs over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. We evaluate goodwill and intangible assets in accordance with ASC 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets which requires goodwill to be either qualitatively or quantitatively assessed for impairment annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise) for each reporting unit. We perform our annual impairment testing of goodwill as of October 1 of each year and in interim periods if events occur that would indicate that it is more likely than not the fair value of a reporting unit is less than carrying value. We first assess qualitative factors to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as the basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. We may bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly with the quantitative analysis. The quantitative analysis compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the fair value, impairment is recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
We determine the fair value of our reporting units using a weighted combination of the discounted cash flow method (income approach) and the guideline company method (market approach). Determining the fair value of a reporting unit requires judgment and the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Such estimates and assumptions include future revenue growth rates, gross profit margins, EBITDA margins, future capital expenditures, weighted average costs of capital and future market conditions, among others. We believe the estimates and assumptions used in our impairment assessments are reasonable; however, variations in any of the assumptions could result in materially different calculations of fair value and determinations of whether or not an impairment is indicated. Under the discounted cash flow method, we determine fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit including estimates for capital expenditures, discounted to present value using the risk-adjusted industry rate, which reflect the overall level of inherent risk of the reporting unit. Cash flow projections are derived from one year budgeted amounts and five year operating forecasts plus an estimate of later period cash flows, all of which are evaluated by management. Subsequent period cash flows are developed for each reporting unit using growth rates that management believes are reasonably likely to occur. Under the guideline company method, we determine the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units by applying valuation multiples of comparable publicly-traded companies to each reporting unit’s projected EBITDA and then averaging that estimate with similar historical calculations using a three-year average. In addition, we estimate a reasonable control premium representing the incremental value that accrues to the majority owner from the opportunity to dictate the strategic and operational actions of the business.
Key assumptions for the measurement of an impairment include management’s estimate of future cash flows and EBITDA. The estimates of future cash flows and EBITDA are subjective in nature and are subject to impacts from the business risks described in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Therefore, the actual results could differ significantly from the amounts used for goodwill impairment testing, and significant changes in fair value estimates could occur, resulting in potential impairments in future periods.
For the years ended December 31, 2020, December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, no impairment charge was recorded for goodwill and intangible assets.
Leases Accounting Policy
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet. Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use, or ROU,
assets, accrued liabilities, and long-term operating lease liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. Finance leases are included in property, plant and equipment, accrued liabilities, and long-term finance lease liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. We use the implicit rate when readily determinable. The lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for separately. For machinery and equipment leases, such as forklifts, we account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
Income Taxes
The Company computes the provision for income taxes using the asset/liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements using the statutory tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The Company uses the period cost method for Global Intangible Low-taxed Income (“GILTI”) provisions, and therefore, has not recorded deferred taxes for basis differences expected to reverse in future periods.