Obligations under the Notes are guaranteed by the Company and the Company’s existing and future subsidiaries (other than the issuing companies) that guarantee the Term Loan and the obligations of the U.S. borrowers under the Revolver. The Notes and the related guarantees are secured by first-priority liens on the collateral that secures the Term Loan on a first-priority basis (which is generally all assets other than those that secure the Revolver on a first-priority basis as set forth below) and second-priority liens on the collateral that secures the Revolver on a first-priority basis (which is generally inventory, accounts receivable, deposit accounts, securities accounts, certain intercompany loans and related assets), which second-priority liens will be ratable with the liens on such assets securing the obligations under the Term Loan and junior to the liens on such assets securing the Revolver.
At any time prior to July 15, 2022, the Company may on any one or more occasions redeem all or part of the Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes redeemed, plus a “make whole premium” as of, and accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, subject to the right of holders of Notes on the relevant record date to receive interest due on an interest payment date occurring on or prior to the redemption date. In addition, at any time prior to July 15, 2022, the Company may on any one or more occasions redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes (calculated after giving effect to the issuance of any additional notes) issued under the Indenture at a redemption price equal to 106.500% of the principal amount of Notes redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption (subject to the right of holders of Notes on the relevant record date to receive interest due on an interest payment date occurring on or prior to the redemption date), with the net cash proceeds of an equity offering. Furthermore, at any time on or after July 15, 2022, the Company may on any one or more occasions redeem all or part of the Notes at the redemption prices (expressed as percentages of principal amount) set forth below, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes redeemed, to the applicable date of redemption, if redeemed during the 12-month period beginning on July 15 of the years indicated below, subject to the rights of holders of Notes on a relevant record date to receive interest on an interest payment date occurring on or prior to the redemption date:
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
The Notes contain customary negative covenants, including, among other things, limitations or prohibitions on restricted payments, incurrence of additional indebtedness, liens, mergers, asset sales and transactions with affiliates. In addition, the Indenture contains customary events of default.
Senior Term Loan
The Term Loan provides for a $1.25 billion senior secured term loan. Subject to the conditions set forth in the term loan agreement, the Term Loan may be increased by (i) up to the greater of $285.0 million and 1.0x consolidated EBITDA (defined below) of Forterra and its restricted subsidiaries for the four quarters most recently ended prior to such incurrence plus (ii) the aggregate amount of any voluntary prepayments, plus (iii) an additional unlimited amount, provided (x) in the case of any incremental debt that is secured by a lien that is pari passu with the liens securing the Term Loan, the first lien leverage ratio does not exceed 4.10 to 1.00, (y) in the case of incremental debt that is secured by a lien that is junior to the liens securing the Term Loan, the total leverage ratio does not exceed 5.50 to 1.00 and (z) in the case of incremental debt that is unsecured, the total leverage ratio does not exceed 5.75 to 1.00, in each case, determined on a pro forma basis.
The Term Loan matures on October 25, 2023 and is subject to quarterly amortization equal to 0.25% of the initial principal amount. Interest accrues on outstanding borrowings thereunder at a rate equal to adjusted LIBOR (with a floor of 1.0%) or an alternate base rate (the base rate, which is the highest of the then current federal funds rate plus 0.50%, the prime rate most recently announced by the administrative agent under the Term Loan, and the one-month adjusted LIBOR plus 1.00%), in each case plus a margin of 3.00% or 2.00%, respectively. The weighted average interest rates for the Term Loan were 4.1% and 5.2% for the years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company repurchased $696.0 million of the Term Loan before its maturity at a market value of $695.1 million. Consequently, the Company wrote off a proportionate share of debt issuance costs of $13.1 million and recognized a net loss of $12.2 million which was included in the consolidated statements of operations.
Outstanding borrowings under the Term Loan are guaranteed by Forterra and each of its direct and indirect material wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries except certain excluded subsidiaries (the "Guarantors"). The Term Loan is secured by substantially all of the assets of Forterra, the borrower and the Guarantors; provided that the obligations under the Term Loan are not secured by any liens on more than 65% of the voting stock of foreign subsidiaries or assets of foreign subsidiaries. The Term Loan contains customary representations and warranties, and affirmative and negative covenants, that, among other things, restrict the ability of Forterra and its restricted subsidiaries to incur additional debt, incur or permit liens on assets, make investments and acquisitions, consolidate or merge with any other company, engage in asset sales and pay dividends and make distributions. The Term Loan does not contain any financial covenants. Obligations under the Term Loan may be accelerated upon certain customary events of default (subject to grace periods, as appropriate).
Asset Based Revolving Facility
On June 17, 2020, the Company entered into a First Amendment (the “Amendment”) to the ABL Credit Agreement. The Amendment, among other things, (i) increased the size of the Revolver from $300 million to $350 million of aggregate commitments, with up to $330 million to be made available to the U.S. Borrowers and up to $20 million to be made available to the Canadian Borrowers (the allocation may be modified periodically at the Company's request), (ii) extended the maturity date of the Revolver to June 17, 2025, subject to earlier maturity if
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
greater than $75.0 million of the Company’s Term Loan remains outstanding 91 days prior to the scheduled maturity of the term loan credit facility or any refinancing thereof, and (iii) modified the interest rates on outstanding borrowings under the Revolver to a rate equal to LIBOR or CDOR plus a margin ranging from 1.75% to 2.25% per annum, or an alternate base rate, Canadian prime rate or Canadian base rate plus a margin ranging from 0.75% to 1.25% per annum, in each case, based upon the average excess availability under the Revolver for the most recently completed calendar quarter and the Company’s total leverage ratio as of the end of the most recent fiscal quarter for which financial statements have been delivered. The Company incurred $2.6 million of fees and expenses in connection with this Amendment and recorded it to “Other Long-term Assets” in its consolidated balance sheet. In addition, the Company wrote off $0.4 million of previously deferred issuance cost related to the banks that are no longer part of the ABL Credit Facility.
Subject to the conditions set forth in the ABL Credit Agreement, as amended, the Revolver may be increased by up to the greater of (i) $100.0 million and (ii) such amount as would not cause the aggregate borrowing base to be exceeded by more than $50.0 million. Borrowings under the Revolver may not exceed a borrowing base equal to the sum of (i) 100% of eligible cash, (ii) 85% of eligible accounts receivable and (iii) the lesser of (a) 75% of eligible inventory and (b) 85% of the orderly liquidation value of eligible inventory, with the U.S. and Canadian borrowings being subject to separate borrowing base limitations. The advance rates for accounts receivable and inventory are subject to increase by 2.5% during certain periods. As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, the Revolver had no outstanding borrowings. The weighted average interest rates for the borrowings under the Revolver were 2.00% and 3.72% for the years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively.
The Revolver also provides for the issuance of letters of credit of up to an agreed sublimit. The obligations of the borrowers under the Revolver are guaranteed by Forterra and its direct and indirect wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries other than certain excluded subsidiaries; provided that the obligations of the U.S. borrowers are not guaranteed by the Canadian subsidiaries. The Revolver is secured by substantially all of the assets of the borrowers; provided that the obligations of the U.S. borrowers are not secured by any liens on more than 65% of the voting stock of foreign subsidiaries or assets of foreign subsidiaries.
In addition, Forterra pays a facility fee of between 20.0 and 32.5 basis points per annum based upon the utilization of the total Revolver. Availability under the Revolver, based on draws, outstanding letters of credit of $16.7 million, as well as allowable borrowing base as of December 31, 2020, was $235.6 million.
The Revolver and the Term Loan contain customary representations and warranties, and affirmative and negative covenants, including representations, warranties, and covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of Forterra and its restricted subsidiaries to incur additional debt, incur or permit liens on assets, make investments and acquisitions, consolidate or merge with any other company, engage in asset sales and pay dividends and make distributions. The Revolver contains a financial covenant restricting Forterra from allowing its fixed charge coverage ratio to drop below 1.00:1.00 during a compliance period, which is triggered when the availability under the Revolver falls below a threshold set forth in the ABL Credit Agreement, as amended. Obligations under the Revolver and the Term Loan may be accelerated upon certain customary events of default (subject to grace periods, as appropriate). The fixed charge coverage ratio is the ratio of consolidated earnings before interest, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA’’) less cash payments for capital expenditures and income taxes to consolidated fixed charges (interest expense plus scheduled payments of principal on indebtedness).
As of December 31, 2020, the Company was in compliance with all applicable covenants under the Revolver, the Term Loan, and the Notes.
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
As of December 31, 2020, scheduled maturities of long-term debt were as follows (in thousands):
12. Other long-term liabilities
Other long-term liabilities consist of the following for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands):
13. Derivatives and hedging
The Company uses derivatives to manage selected foreign exchange and interest rate exposures. The Company does not use derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes, and, except as discussed below, cash flows from derivative instruments are included in net cash provided by (used in) operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows.