section_1: Item 1. Business
On March 13, 2015, through an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, Lone Star Fund IX (U.S.), L.P. (which is referred to, along with its affiliates and associates, but excluding us and other companies that it owns as a result of its investment activity, as Lone Star) acquired the building products business of HeidelbergCement AG, or HC, in the United States and Eastern Canada, or the Acquisition. Unless otherwise specified or where the context otherwise requires, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to “our,” “we,” “us,” the “Company” and “our business” refer to the operations of Forterra, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries. We are a holding company incorporated in Delaware in 2016. We are controlled by Lone Star and have been operating as a stand-alone company since 2015.
Recent Developments
On February 19, 2021, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Quikrete Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or Parent, and Jordan Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent, or Merger Sub. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of specified conditions, Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company, or the Merger, with us surviving the Merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent. At the effective time of the Merger, each issued and outstanding share of common stock of the Company (other than (i) any shares held in the treasury of the Company or owned, directly or indirectly, by Parent, Merger Sub or any wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company immediately prior to the Effective Time, (ii) shares that are subject to any vesting restrictions (“Company Restricted Shares”) granted under the Company’s stock incentive plans, (iii) any shares owned by stockholders who have properly exercised and perfected appraisal rights under Delaware law) will be automatically canceled and converted into the right to receive $24.00 in cash, without interest (the “Merger Consideration”), subject to deduction for any required withholding tax. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis, Overview for a more fulsome description of the Merger, the Merger Agreement and its terms and expected impact on our business.
General
We are a manufacturer of concrete pipe and precast products and ductile iron pipe in the United States and Eastern Canada for a variety of essential water-related infrastructure applications. Our products and services are used in the construction, maintenance, repair and replacement of water drainage, distribution and transmission systems.
Our manufacturing and distribution network allows us to serve most major markets in the United States and Eastern Canada. We operate 77 active manufacturing facilities with capacity that allows us to serve our customers' needs.
We manufacture both water drainage pipe and precast structures (used primarily for storm water and drainage applications) and water transmission and distribution pipe (used primarily to transport potable water and as a component of wastewater systems) and believe our complementary product portfolio is well positioned to serve both (i) the storm water and wastewater infrastructure market and (ii) the potable water transmission and distribution market. We serve a diverse set of end markets, including infrastructure, residential, and non-residential construction, which allows us to benefit from both secular and cyclical growth across each of these end-markets. The infrastructure, residential, and non-residential end markets in the United States and Eastern Canada have different growth drivers and operating dynamics, and the cyclical performance of these markets has historically been staggered during different stages of the broader economic cycle serving to mitigate the cyclical impact of any one single market on our business. In addition, given the nature of water as a basic necessity, municipalities generally repair and replace their existing water and wastewater infrastructure.
Our operational strategy is focused on our five improvement pillars:
•Health and Safety - Prioritizing the health and safety of our employees above anything else; our most productive facilities should be our safest
•Plant-level Operational Discipline - Making daily improvements using our manufacturing/process know-how to drive efficiencies with disciplined financial investment
•Enhanced Commercial Capabilities-Investing in our sales force to expand capabilities and better inform our customers of our compelling value proposition
•Working Capital Efficiency-Having the right levels of inventory in the right places at the right times and aligning our accounts receivable and accounts payable cycles
•G&A Effectiveness-Delivering deeper information faster and at a lower cost so operators can make better business decisions
Our solid execution on these five pillars has produced, and we believe will continue to produce, the earnings and cash flows to continue to reduce our net leverage ratio to our stated mid-term target of 3.0x to 3.5x earnings. Our organic growth strategy is focused on leveraging our operations, customer service and product innovation capabilities, as well as our product breadth and scale, to sell our products to existing customers, to increase penetration and project wins and to gain market share through new customers. Operationally, we continue to focus on efficiency and productivity improvements to reduce costs and drive unit margin improvements. We periodically evaluate our existing business and acquisition opportunities to complement our organic growth or enhance our scale, geographic footprint and product portfolio while simultaneously considering and making strategic divestitures or changes in our manufacturing footprint to optimize our portfolio. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of our recent acquisitions and divestitures.
Our Segments
Drainage Pipe & Products. We are the largest producer of concrete drainage pipe and precast products by sales volume in the United States and Eastern Canada. In addition, we also produce concrete pressure pipe in Eastern Canada. We operate 62 active manufacturing facilities across multiple states and a Canadian province. These facilities provide us with a local presence and the necessary proximity to our customers to minimize delivery times and distribution costs to the markets we serve. We believe our product offering creates value for our customers as it eliminates the need to engage multiple suppliers of storm water and wastewater-related products for a single project, enabling them to maximize efficiency and meet more aggressive timetables. We also have the ability to custom-build products to complex specifications and regulations.
Drainage pipe has residential, non-residential and infrastructure applications. It is primarily used for storm water applications, such as storm drains for roads and highways, and for residential and non-residential site developments. In addition, drainage pipe is used for sanitary sewers, low-pressure sewer force mains, tunneled systems, treatment plant piping and utility tunnels.
Water Pipe & Products. We are the largest producer of ductile iron pipe, or DIP, by sales volume in the United States. Utilizing the U.S. Pipe brand, we manufacture a number of products used for the transmission of potable water and wastewater in pipe diameters typically ranging from three to 64 inches. Our product breadth and depth and our technical service address a range of our customers' water transmission and distribution needs. Our 15 manufacturing facilities are located across the United States, with swing capacity available to support increased production levels as appropriate to satisfy increased demand.
Key SegmentsDrainage Pipe & ProductsWater Pipe & Products
Products
Product ApplicationsStorm water and wastewater infrastructurePotable and wastewater transmission and distribution
Primary Market Channels- Direct to Contractors - Distributors- Distributors - Direct to Contractors, Municipalities and Utilities Waterworks
# of Active Manufacturing Facilities6215
Corporate and Other. Corporate, general and administrative expenses not allocated to our revenue-generating segments, such as certain shared services, executive and other administrative functions.
Our Industry and Core End Markets
We serve a range of infrastructure-related end markets. Based on the source of funding, we classify these construction markets into infrastructure/municipal, residential and non-residential.
Infrastructure
Infrastructure represents spending by federal, state, and local governments for the construction and repair of streets, highways, storm and sanitary sewers, as well as the construction and repair of water lines for the delivery of potable water, which are often supported by multi-year federal and state legislation and programs. It also includes local municipalities water infrastructure spending associated with the construction, repair and replacement of water transportation and distribution systems. Spending on these items is driven by federal, state and municipal funding for both new build and repair projects. In addition to availability of funding at the federal, state and municipal levels, these programs are impacted by other factors, including demographic and population shifts and the ability of contractors to obtain skilled labor.
A large proportion of U.S. water infrastructure is approaching, or has already reached, the end of its useful life. According to The American Society of Civil Engineers, or ASCE, many drinking water pipes in the U.S. were laid from 1900 to 1950. Today, aging pipelines contribute to the estimated 240,000 water main breaks per year in the U.S., wasting over two trillion gallons of treated drinking water. Additionally, lead pipes and fixtures, which were commonly installed through the mid-20th century, are still in service in some cities. The American Water Works Association estimated that the need for buried drinking water infrastructure in the U.S. through 2050 totals nearly $1.7 trillion, about 54% of which is needed for replacement of existing infrastructure and the balance being necessary to accommodate population growth and migration over that period. ASCE gave the U.S. wastewater infrastructure a grade of D+ and, in 2017, estimated that 56 million new users would be connected to centralized treatment systems over the next 15 years requiring at least $271 billion to meet current and future demands and to upgrade existing infrastructure. Likewise, the ASCE grades the U.S. surface transportation (roads, bridges, and transit) infrastructure D/C+/D- and has identified over $1 trillion in additional spending needed to repair and upgrade existing structures as well as construction of new facilities to accommodate growth through 2025. As the leader in our respective markets serving the water related infrastructure industry, we believe we are well positioned to benefit from this much needed spending to repair and upgrade U.S. infrastructure.
Residential Construction
Residential construction includes single family homes and multi-family units such as apartments and condominiums. In this end market, our products are primarily used during the new lot development phase of construction. New residential housing starts provide a strong leading indicator of increased activity in the residential construction market for water transmission, wastewater and drainage systems. Demand for residential construction is influenced by demographic and population shifts, mortgage interest rates, and the ability of builders to obtain skilled labor. U.S. residential new construction peaked in 2006 before experiencing a downturn from 2007 to 2011. Since 2011, the recovery of residential new construction has translated into increased demand for our products and we believe we are well-positioned to capitalize as and to the extent this trend continues. In 2020, total annual housing starts in the United States increased to 1.7 million, an increase of 5.2% above 2019 housing starts according to the U.S. Census Bureau and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Since 1974, annual additions to the housing supply exceeded household growth by an average of 30% to accommodate replacement of older units, demand for second homes, geographic shifts in the population, and a normal amount of vacancies. However, for most of the last decade, housing production has barely kept pace with household formation. We believe this indicates there is significant pent up demand for housing and that the market will see continued growth. The Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University estimates annual construction should now be on the order of 1.5 million units, or about 210,000 higher than in 2019.
Non-residential Construction