(1)each restricted stock unit that is solely subject to time-based vesting requirements granted under the Company Stock Plans that is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall fully vest and be converted into the right to receive an amount in cash (without interest and subject to applicable tax withholdings) equal to the product of (i) the Merger Consideration multiplied by (ii) the number of shares of Common Stock subject to such vested restricted stock unit;
(2)each restricted stock unit that is subject to performance-based vesting requirements granted under the Company Stock Plans that is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall immediately vest and be converted into the right to receive an amount in cash (without interest and subject to applicable tax withholdings) equal to the product of (i) the Merger Consideration multiplied by (ii) the number of shares subject to such vested restricted stock unit immediately prior to the Effective Time as determined in accordance with the Merger Agreement;
(3)each option to purchase shares of Common Stock granted under the Company Stock Plans that is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall fully vest, to the extent not vested previously, and be converted into the right to receive an amount in cash (without interest and subject to applicable tax withholdings) equal to the product of (i) the remainder, if positive, of (A) the Merger Consideration minus (B) the exercise price per share of Common Stock of such option multiplied by (ii) the number of shares of Common Stock subject to such vested option; and
(4)each Company Restricted Share that is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall immediately vest in full and be converted into the right to receive an amount in cash (without interest and subject to applicable tax withholdings) equal to the Merger Consideration.
Each party’s obligation to consummate the Merger is subject to certain conditions, including, among others: (i) expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended; (ii) the absence of any order issued by any court of competent jurisdiction, other legal restraint or prohibition or any law enacted or deemed applicable by a governmental entity that prohibits or makes illegal the consummation of the Merger; (iii) the passing of twenty (20) days from the date on which we mail to our stockholders the Information Statement (as defined below) in definitive form; (iv) subject to certain qualifications, the accuracy of representations and warranties of the other party set forth in the Merger Agreement; and (v) the performance by the other party in all material respects of its obligations under the Merger Agreement. Parent’s obligation to consummate the Merger is also conditioned on, among other things, the absence of any Material Adverse Effect (as defined in the Merger Agreement).
Entry into the Merger Agreement was unanimously approved by our board of directors.
The Merger Agreement includes customary representations, warranties and covenants of us, Parent and Merger Sub. Among other things, we have agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to conduct its business in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and use commercially reasonable efforts to preserve intact its businesses until the Merger is consummated. We and Parent have also agreed to use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain any approvals from governmental authorities for the Merger, including all required antitrust approvals, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, provided that Parent and its affiliates will not be required to take, or agree to take, certain actions with respect to assets, businesses or product lines of Parent or any of its subsidiaries, or we or any of its subsidiaries, accounting for more than $80 million of EBITDA (as defined in the Merger Agreement) for the 12 months ended December 31, 2020, measured in accordance with the Merger Agreement.
The Merger Agreement contains certain provisions giving each of Parent and us rights to terminate the Merger Agreement under certain circumstances, including the right for either Parent or us to terminate the Merger Agreement if the Merger has not been consummated on or before November 19, 2021, which date will be automatically extended for up to two additional 60-day periods in specified circumstances as described in the Merger Agreement, or the Outside Date. Upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, we will be required to pay Parent a termination fee of $50 million. The Merger Agreement further provides that Parent will be required to pay us a reverse termination fee of $85 million under certain circumstances if the Merger Agreement is terminated due to the failure of the parties to obtain required approvals under Antitrust Laws (as defined in the Merger Agreement) prior to the Outside Date or as a result of a Restraint (as defined in the Merger Agreement) arising under applicable Antitrust Laws.
If the Merger is consummated, the shares of Common Stock will be delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC and deregistered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
Our Segments
Our operations are organized into the following reportable segments:
•Drainage Pipe & Products - We are a producer of concrete drainage pipe and precast products and concrete pressure pipe products.
•Water Pipe & Products - We are a producer of ductile iron pipe, or DIP.
•Corporate and Other - Corporate, general and administrative expenses not allocated to our revenue-generating segments such as certain shared services, executive and other administrative functions.
In the fourth quarter of 2020, we reclassified our pressure pipe business from Water segment to Drainage segment to better align with our organizational structure.
COVID-19 Pandemic
Beginning in mid-March, local, state, provincial and federal authorities began issuing stay at home orders in response to the spread of the coronavirus disease 2019, or COVID-19, which has quickly spread throughout the United States and worldwide. These government-instituted restrictions, together with the economic volatility and uncertainty caused by the pandemic, have had a significant impact on the United States economy in general and certain parts of our end-markets in particular. Despite these events and the related uncertainty, we have continued to operate as an essential business under the government orders, and the COVID-19 pandemic has not materially affected our liquidity, financial results or business operations thus far. During the initial phase of the pandemic in the early part of the second quarter, we experienced temporary delays in certain projects, primarily related to governmental stay-at-home orders in place at that time and the reactions of certain customers to those orders, specifically in our residential end-markets. Late in the second quarter and continuing through 2020 and into 2021, as most states started gradually resuming their normal economic activities, there was some correction in these trends in the residential housing market.
Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have focused on protecting the health and safety of our team members while maintaining our operations, which have been deemed essential under relevant pandemic-related government regulations, and continuing to meet our customers’ needs. Although some of our team members have tested positive for COVID-19, and we encountered temporary closures of a small number of our manufacturing facilities in the second quarter due to such cases or due to government mandate, these events have not had a significant impact on our operations or our ability to serve our customers' needs. We are however utilizing the option under the CARES Act to defer the employer portion of the social security taxes that would otherwise be due in 2020, but will be delayed with 50% due by December 31, 2021 and the remaining 50% by December 31, 2022.
However, there is still considerable uncertainty regarding the extent and duration of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the pandemic and related economic impacts may affect our operations in 2021, in particular due to the uncertainty of future funding and demand in our infrastructure and municipal end-markets, as well as increased case numbers in locations where we have large numbers of employees or significant customer concentration. Our backlogs are stronger to date in 2021 than they were in 2020, however, and bidding activity also appears strong.
Due to the fluidity and unprecedented and uncertain nature of the pandemic, we cannot predict the full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, or that of our customers, and participants in our supply chain, or on economic conditions generally, including the effects on infrastructure and other construction activity. The ultimate scope and extent of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic are highly uncertain and will depend on future developments, and such effects could exist for an extended period of time even after the pandemic may end.
For additional information on risk factors that could impact our results, please refer to “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K.
Principal Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations
Our financial performance and results of operations are influenced by a variety of factors, including conditions in the residential, non-residential and infrastructure construction markets, general economic conditions, changes in cost of goods sold, competitive behavior in the markets we serve, and seasonality and weather conditions. Some of the more important factors are discussed below, as well as in the section Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” with the exception of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, which are discussed above.
Infrastructure Spending and Residential and Non-Residential Construction Activities
A large proportion of our net sales in our Drainage Pipe & Products segment is generated through public infrastructure projects, which are driven by federal, state and provincial funding programs. In the U.S., federal funds are allocated to the states, which are required to match a portion of the federal funds they receive. Federal highway spending uses funds predominantly from the Federal Highway Trust Fund, which derives its revenue from taxes on diesel fuel, gasoline and other user fees. The dependability of federal funding allows the state departments of transportation to plan for their long term highway construction and maintenance needs. Funding for the existing U.S. federal transportation funding program extends through 2021. With the nation’s infrastructure aging, there is increased demand by states and municipalities for long-term federal funding to support the construction of new roads, highways and bridges in addition to the maintenance of the existing infrastructure. In addition to federal funding, state, county and local agencies provide highway construction and maintenance funding through various sources such as gas taxes.
The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in high levels of unemployment and a slowdown in economic activities, mostly brought on by stay-at-home orders or partial shutdowns issued during 2020 by various state, county, city and local authorities across the country. The state and local transportation programs that depend on sales tax and gas tax revenues are also facing funding shortfalls. Many states have delayed projects or cut capital programs in 2020. The American Road and Transportation Builders Association (“ARTBA”) forecasts transportation construction activity to decline 5.5 percent in 2021, and to resume growth in 2022 as economic conditions improve to pre-COVID levels.