A large proportion of our net sales in our Water Pipe & Products segment is generated through municipal infrastructure projects. The U.S. potable water infrastructure, especially the underground pipes that deliver drinking water to homes and businesses, is aging and in need of significant reinvestment. Like many of the roads, bridges, and other public assets on which the U.S. relies, most of the underground drinking water infrastructure was built 50 or more years ago, in the post-World War II era of rapid demographic change and economic growth. In some older urban areas, many water mains have been in the ground for a century or longer. Given its age, a large proportion of the U.S. water infrastructure is approaching, or has already reached, the end of its useful life. In some locations, improvements to water infrastructure are needed to comply with standards for drinking water quality. The American Society of Civil Engineers estimates 240,000 water main breaks per year in the U.S. due to aging pipelines, wasting over two trillion gallons of treated drinking water. The underlying demand for municipalities to repair or replace their water systems depends on the status of the water systems and the availability of funding. With people spending more time at their homes in order to reduce the spread of the COVID-19 virus, it is even more critical to ensure the uninterrupted supply of clean water.
A relatively smaller proportion of our products has been closely tied to residential construction and non-residential construction activity in the United States and Eastern Canada. Activity levels in these markets can be materially affected by general economic and global financial market conditions. In addition, residential construction activity levels are influenced by and sensitive to mortgage availability, the cost of financing a home (in particular, mortgage and interest rates), unemployment levels, household formation rates, residential vacancy and foreclosure rates, existing housing prices, rental prices, housing inventory levels, consumer confidence and government policy and incentives. During 2020, we saw a brief downturn in the housing market at the onset of
the pandemic, but it quickly rebounded and continued to grow throughout the remainder of 2020, driven by improvements in economic activities, increased demand for single-family housing as more people work remotely, as well as historically low mortgage interest rates. Non-residential construction activity is primarily driven by levels of business investment, availability of credit and interest rates, as well as many of the factors that impact residential construction activity levels. See Item 1 “Business.”
Mix of Products
We derive our revenues from both the sale of products manufactured to inventory, such as concrete drainage pipe and DIP, and highly engineered products which are made to order, such as precast concrete products and concrete pressure pipe. These two product categories differ in their dynamics. The mix of products our customers order is project driven and varies from period to period. We generally recognize revenue at the time of shipment of our products; however, for some of our highly engineered structural precast products, we recognize revenue on a percentage of completion method, which accounted for 2.6% of our total sales in 2020.
Most of our products are sold on a one-off basis, with volumes and prices determined frequently based on market participants’ perceptions of short-term supply and demand factors. A shortage of capacity or excess capacity in the industry, or in the regions where we have operations, or the behavior of our competitors, can each result in significant increases or decreases in market prices for these products, often within a short period of time. By contrast, our project-driven business involves highly engineered and customized products with a wide range of contract values. The products for these projects are engineered, manufactured and delivered on the basis of contracts that tend to extend over periods of several months or, in some cases, several years. The timing of the commencement of a project and the progress and completion of work under a contract, therefore, can have a significant effect on our results of operations for a particular period.
Average Selling Prices
The average selling prices we are able to obtain for our products affect our results of operations and our margins. Our average selling price can vary by market location, particularly in our Drainage Pipe and Products segment, product mix, factors relating to supply and demand, and the actions of our customers and competitors. The average selling prices for our products increased in 2020 over the average selling prices we received in 2019 in both our Water and Drainage segments.
Cost of Goods Sold
Costs of raw material and other inputs, supplies, labor (including contract labor), freight and energy constitute a large portion of our cost of goods sold, and fluctuations in the prices of these materials and inputs affect our results of operations and, in particular, our margins. Our primary raw materials in our Drainage Pipe and Products segment are cement, aggregates, and steel. We typically negotiate contracts with suppliers of these materials for one to three years, with prices subject to annual revisions. The primary input in our Water business is scrap steel, which we purchase on the spot market, and its costs can vary significantly from period to period. We do not generally hedge our raw material purchases but rather utilize our product pricing strategy to manage our exposure to fluctuations in our raw material costs.
Seasonality and Weather Conditions
The construction industry, and therefore demand for our products, is typically seasonal and highly dependent on weather conditions, with periods of snow or heavy rain negatively affecting construction activity. Because the majority of our products are buried underground, we experience lower demand for our products in periods of cold weather, particularly during winter, and periods of excessive rain or flooding. These types of conditions or other unfavorable weather conditions generally lead to seasonal fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. Historically, our net sales in the second and third quarters have been higher than in the other quarters of the year, particularly the first quarter.
In addition, unfavorable weather conditions, such as hurricanes or severe storms, or public holidays during peak construction periods can result in temporary cessation of projects and a material reduction in demand for our products and consequently have an adverse effect on our net sales. Results of a fiscal quarter may therefore not be a reliable basis for the expectations of a full fiscal year and may not be comparable with the results in the other fiscal quarters in the same year or prior years.
Our Business Strategy
Our strategy is focused on continued execution of our five improvement pillars: health and safety of our team members, plant-level operational discipline, enhanced commercial capabilities, working capital efficiency, and general and administrative effectiveness. See Item 1 "Business" These pillars are designed to expand our product margin so that we can earn a full and fair return on the products we produce and the capital we deploy. We are also committed to strengthen our capital structure through a combination of working capital improvement, debt repayment and prudent investment in the business. Prudent investment in the business includes growth capital expenditures in projects and smaller acquisitions. Our near-term goal is to reduce our net leverage ratio to 3x-3.5x. After achieving that, we will cautiously evaluate our capital allocation plans going forward to maximize values to our stakeholders.
Principal Components of Results of Operations
Net Sales
Net sales consist of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of products in the ordinary course of business and include the billable costs of delivery of our products to customers, net of discounts given to the customer. Net sales include any outbound freight charged to the customer. Revenue on certain long-term engineering and construction contracts for our structural precast and products that are designed and engineered specifically for the customer is recognized under the percentage-of completion method. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.
Cost of Goods Sold
Cost of goods sold includes raw materials and other inputs (cement, aggregates, scrap, and steel) and supplies, labor (including contract labor), freight (including outbound freight for delivery of products to end users and other charges such as inbound freight), energy, depreciation and amortization, repairs and maintenance and other cost of goods sold.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
Selling, general and administrative expenses include expenses for sales, marketing, legal, accounting and finance services, human resources, customer support, treasury and other general corporate services. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include transaction costs directly related to business combinations.
Earnings from Equity Method Investee
Earnings from equity method investee represents our share of the income of the CP&P joint venture we entered into with Americast, Inc. CP&P is engaged primarily in the manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of concrete pipe and precast products in Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and South Carolina with sales to contiguous states. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on CP&P.
Other Operating Income
The remaining categories of operating income and expenses consist of scrap income (associated with scrap from the manufacturing process or remaining scrap after plants are closed), insurance gains, rental income, as well as net gain or loss on the sale of assets including property, plant and equipment.
Interest Expense
Interest expense represents interest on the indebtedness.
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit
Income tax expense consists of federal, state, provincial, local and foreign taxes based on income in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Results of Operations
Year Ended December 31, 2020 as Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Total Company
The following table summarizes certain financial information relating to our operating results for the years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 (in thousands).
* Represents positive or negative change in excess of 100%
Net Sales
Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 were $1,594.5 million, an increase of $64.7 million or 4.2% from $1,529.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was the net effect of a $90.3 million increase in our in our Water Pipe & Products segment mostly due to higher average selling prices; partially offset by a decrease of $25.6 million in our Drainage Pipe & Products segment primarily driven by lower shipment volumes, partially offset by higher average selling prices.
Cost of Goods Sold
Cost of goods sold for the year ended December 31, 2020 were $1,217.8 million, a decrease of $15.6 million or 1.3% from $1,233.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The small decrease in cost of goods sold was the net effect of a $36.2 million decrease in our Drainage Pipe & Products segment primarily driven by lower shipment volumes, partially offset by an increase of $20.8 million in our Water Pipe & Products segment primarily due to a slight year-over-year increase in shipment volumes while unit cost of sales remained relatively flat.
Gross Profit
Gross profit in the year ended December 31, 2020 was $376.7 million, an increase of $80.3 million, or 27.1%, from $296.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2019. Gross profit in both our Water Pipe & Products segment and our Drainage Pipe & Products segment increased by $69.5 million and $10.6 million, respectively, primarily due to higher average selling prices in both businesses, partially offset by the volume decline in our Drainage Pipe & Products segment.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the year ended December 31, 2020 were $221.8 million, the same as $221.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2019. Higher incentive compensation expenses of $6.1 million driven by better results were partially offset by lower travel expenses of $3.1 million, and lower executive severance expenses of $2.5 million in 2020 compared to 2019.
Impairment and Exit Charges