assessed for impairment annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise) for each reporting unit. The Company performs its annual impairment testing of goodwill as of October 1 of each year and in interim periods if events occur that would indicate that it is more likely than not the fair value of a reporting unit is less than carrying value. The Company first assesses qualitative factors to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as the basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. The Company may bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly with the quantitative analysis. The quantitative analysis compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the fair value, impairment is recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
The Company evaluates its intangible assets with finite lives for indications of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the net book value may not be recoverable. Intangible assets with finite lives consist of customer relationships, customer backlogs, and brand names, and are amortized under the consumption method over the estimated useful lives. Factors that could trigger an impairment review include significant under-performance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of the Company's use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the Company's overall business or significant negative industry or economic trends.
If this evaluation indicates that the value of the intangible asset may be impaired, the Company makes an assessment of the recoverability of the net book value of the asset over its remaining useful life. If this assessment indicates that the intangible asset is not recoverable, based on the estimated undiscounted future cash flows of the asset over the remaining amortization period, the Company reduces the net book value of the related intangible asset to fair value and may adjust the remaining amortization period.
Investment in equity method investee
The Company has an investment in a joint venture accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, carrying value is adjusted for the Company's share of the investee's earnings and losses, as well as capital contributions to and distributions from the investee. Distributions in excess of equity method earnings are recognized as a return of investment and recorded as investing cash inflows in the accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows. The Company classifies its share of income and loss related to its investments in its investee as a component of operating income or loss, as the Company's investments in the investee is an extension of the Company's core business operations.
The Company evaluates its investment in the equity method investee for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of its investment may have experienced an "other-than-temporary" decline in value. If such conditions exist, the Company compares the estimated fair value of the investment to its carrying value to determine if an impairment is indicated and determines whether the impairment is "other-than-temporary" based on its assessment of all relevant factors, including consideration of the Company's intent and ability to retain its investment.
Derivatives and Hedge Accounting
The Company has entered into derivative instruments to mitigate interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk. Certain derivative instruments are designated for hedge accounting under ASC 815-20, Derivatives - Hedging. Instruments that meet hedge criteria are formally designated as hedges at the inception of the instrument.
The Company’s derivative assets and liabilities are measured at fair value. Fair value related to the cash flows occurring within one year are classified as current and the fair value related to the cash flows occurring beyond one year are classified as non-current in the consolidated balance sheets. For those instruments designated as hedges, the Company recognizes the changes in fair value in other comprehensive income (“OCI”), and recognizes any ineffectiveness immediately in earnings.
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
Valuation of derivative assets and liabilities reflect the value of the instrument including counterparty credit risk. These values also take into account the Company’s own credit standing.
Deferred financing costs
In conjunction with its debt, the Company had a net balance of $14.8 million in debt discounts and debt issuance costs as of December 31, 2020. These costs are amortized over the life of the applicable debt instrument to interest expense utilizing the effective interest method. The Company wrote-off deferred debt issuance cost of $13.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 in connection with the repayment of a portion of the term loan at par with the proceeds from the offering of the senior secured notes. See Note 11, Debt and deferred financing costs.
Fair value measurement
The Company utilizes valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs to the extent possible. The Company determines fair value based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability in the principal or most advantageous market. When considering market participant assumptions in fair value measurements, the following fair value hierarchy distinguishes between observable and unobservable inputs, which are categorized in one of the following levels:
Level 1 Inputs - Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities accessible to the reporting entity at the measurement date.
Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
Level 3 Inputs - Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability used to measure fair value to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at measurement date.
The Company's other financial instruments consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, accounts payable, accrued expenses, derivative financial instruments and long-term debt. The carrying value of the Company’s trade and other receivables, trade payables and accrued expenses approximates fair value due to their highly liquid nature, short-term maturity, or competitive rates assigned to these financial instruments.
The Company adjusts the carrying amount of certain non-financial assets to fair value on a non-recurring basis when they are impaired.
Foreign currency translation
The Company uses the U.S. dollar as its functional currency for operations in the U.S. and Mexico, and the Canadian dollar for operations in Canada. The assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of the Company’s Canadian operations are translated in accordance with ASC 830, Foreign Currency Matters.
Environmental remediation liabilities
The Company accrues for costs on an undiscounted basis associated with environmental remediation obligations when such costs are probable and reasonably estimable; if an estimated amount is likely to fall within a range and no amount within that range can be determined to be the better estimate, the minimum amount of the range is recorded. Claims for recoveries from insurance carriers and other third parties are not recorded until it is probable that the recoveries will be realized. Such accruals are adjusted as further information develops or circumstances change. Environmental expenditures that relate to current operations or to conditions caused by past operations are expensed. Expenditures that create future benefits are capitalized. At December 31, 2020
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements
and 2019, the Company had environmental obligations of $1.6 million and $1.6 million, respectively, which are recorded within accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.
Stock-based plans
The Company applies the provisions of ASC 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, in its accounting and reporting for stock-based compensation. ASC 718 requires all stock-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values. All unvested options outstanding under the Company's option plans have grant prices equal to the market price of the Company's stock on the dates of grant. Compensation cost for restricted stock and restricted stock units is determined based on the fair market value of the Company's stock at the date of grant. Stock-based compensation expense is generally recognized over the required service period, or over a shorter period when employee retirement eligibility is a factor. The Company recognizes forfeitures as they occur. Awards that may be settled in cash or company stock are classified as liabilities and remeasured at fair value at the end of each reporting period until the awards are settled.
Income Taxes
The Company computes the provision for income taxes using the asset/liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements using the statutory tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The Company uses the period cost method for Global Intangible Low-taxed Income (“GILTI”) provisions, and therefore, has not recorded deferred taxes for basis differences expected to reverse in future periods.
The Company evaluates the recoverability of its deferred tax assets quarterly to determine if valuation allowances are required or should be adjusted. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, the Company considers all available evidence for each jurisdiction, including past operating results, future reversal of taxable and deductible temporary differences, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. The measurement of a deferred tax asset is reduced, if necessary, by a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
The Company recognizes a tax benefit for uncertain tax positions only if it believes it is more-likely-than-not that the position will be sustained upon examination based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. The Company evaluates whether a tax position meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold using the assumption that the position will be examined by the appropriate taxing authority. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are measured based upon the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. Penalties and interest related to income tax uncertainties, should they occur, are included in income tax expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Revenue recognition
The Company's revenue contracts are primarily single performance obligations for the sale of product both to trade customers and distributors. A majority of revenue recognized by the Company is recognized at the time control is transferred to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for the products. The Company considers several indicators for the transfer of control to its customers, including the significant risks and rewards of ownership of products, the Company's right to payment and the legal title of the products. Based upon the assessment of control indicators, sales to trade customers and distributors are generally recognized when products are delivered to customers.
All variable consideration that may affect the total transaction price, including contractual discounts, rebates, returns and credits, is included in net sales. Estimates for variable consideration are based on historical experience, anticipated performance and management's judgment. Generally, the Company's contracts do not contain significant financing.
FORTERRA, INC.
Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements