In July 2017, the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced that LIBOR would no longer be published, with an expected target date of December 31, 2021 for the phase out. On March 5, 2021, the FCA announced firm target dates for the phase out of various LIBOR settings, including a phase out date of June 30, 2023 for 3-month LIBOR for U.S. dollar deposits. LIBOR is used extensively in the U.S and globally as a “benchmark” or “reference rate” for various commercial and financial contracts. In response, the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (“ARRC”), made up of financial and capital market institutions, was convened to address the replacement of LIBOR in the U.S. The ARRC identified a potential successor to LIBOR in the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) and crafted a plan to facilitate the transition. However, there are significant conceptual and technical differences between LIBOR and SOFR. The federal Financial Stability Oversight Committee has stated that the end or waning use of LIBOR has the potential to significantly disrupt trading in many important types of financial contracts.
As of December 31, 2020, the Company had outstanding $12,887,000 in principal amount of Junior Subordinated Debentures due December 15, 2037, which bear a quarterly floating rate of interest equal to the 3-month LIBOR, plus 2.85%. Under the terms of the Indenture, if 3-month LIBOR is not available, the Trustee may obtain substitute quotations from four leading banks in the London interbank market for their offered rate to prime banks in the London market for U.S. dollar deposits having a three month maturity; if at least two such quotations are provided, the quarterly rate on the Debentures will be the arithmetic mean of such quotations. If fewer than two such quotations are received, the Trustee will request substitute quotations from four major New York City banks for their offered rate to leading European banks for loans in U.S. dollars; if at least two such quotations are provided, the quarterly rate on the Debentures will be the arithmetic mean of such quotations. The Debenture Trustee has not yet informed the Company as to how it intends to proceed. Phase out of LIBOR, including the Debenture Trustee’s implementation of the foregoing provisions, could significantly impact the Company’s interest costs on its Debentures and it is not possible to predict the magnitude of any such increase.
OPERATIONAL RISKS
As a participating lender in the SBA’s Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”), the Company is subject to additional risks that the SBA may not fund some or all PPP loan guaranties and risks of litigation from our customers or other parties regarding the processing of PPP loans.
We are a participating lender in the PPP, a loan program administered through the SBA, that was created to help eligible businesses, organizations and self-employed persons fund their operational costs during the COVID-19 pandemic. We originated $105.0 million in PPP loans during 2020, of which $64.3 million remained outstanding at December 31, 2020, and we continue to make new loans during 2021 under the PPP, as extended by the CAA. Under the PPP, the SBA guarantees 100% of the amounts loaned under the program. There is some ambiguity in the laws, rules and guidance regarding the operation of the PPP, which exposes us to risks relating to noncompliance with the PPP. In addition, some other financial institutions have experienced litigation related to their process and procedures used in processing applications for the PPP. Any financial liability, regulatory enforcement, litigation costs or reputational damage stemming from our participation in the PPP and any related litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be exposed to credit risk on PPP loans if the SBA determines that there is a deficiency in the manner in which we originated, funded or serviced a PPP loan. If the SBA identifies a deficiency, the SBA may deny its liability under the guaranty for the affected loan or loans, reduce the amount of the guaranty, or, if it has already paid under the guaranty, seek recovery of any loss related to the deficiency.
We are subject to liquidity risk because we rely primarily on deposit-gathering to satisfy our funding needs.
Our primary source of liquidity is through the growth of deposits, which provide low cost funding for our operations. If we are unable to attract enough deposits in our market area to fund loan growth and our other funding needs, then we may be forced to purchase deposits or to borrow through the FHLBB or in the capital markets. Purchased deposits and borrowings would tend to be more expensive than funding through core deposits and therefore could have a negative impact on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and regulatory capital levels.
We are subject to credit risk and if our ALL is not adequate to cover actual losses, our earnings could decrease.
We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers may default on their obligations. A borrower’s default on its obligations under one or more loans may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the credit. In certain situations, where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable work-out arrangements cannot be reached, we may have to write off the loan in whole or in part. In loan default situations, we may acquire real estate or other assets, if any, that secure the loan, through foreclosure or other similar available remedies, and the amount owed under the defaulted loan could exceed the value of the collateral acquired.
We periodically make a determination of the adequacy of our ALL based on available information, including, but not limited to, the quality of the loan portfolio as indicated by loan risk ratings, economic conditions, the value of the underlying collateral and the level of non-accruing and criticized loans. Management relies on its loan officers and credit quality reviews, its experience and its evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the provision required for the allowance. Provisions to this allowance result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions, previously incorrect assumptions, an increase in defaulted loans, or other pertinent factors, we determine that additional increases in the ALL are necessary, additional expenses may be incurred. During 2020, in evaluating our ALL we downgraded certain qualitative factors and shortened our historical lookback period from five years to one year, in light of the adverse economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Determining the amount of the ALL inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and trends, all of which may undergo material changes. At any time, we are likely to have loans in our portfolio that will result in losses but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem credits. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify deteriorating credits before they become nonperforming assets or that we will be able to limit or correctly estimate losses on those loans that are identified. The OCC, our subsidiary Bank’s primary federal regulator, reviews the loan portfolio from time to time as part of its regulatory examination and may request that we increase the ALL. Changes in economic conditions or individual business or personal circumstances affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the ALL, we will need to make additional provisions to restore the allowance. Any provisions to increase or restore the ALL would decrease our net income and, possibly, our capital, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
The FASB has issued an accounting standard update that will result in a significant change in how we recognize credit losses and may have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. Under the new guidance, which will replace the existing incurred loss model for recognizing credit losses, banks and other lending institutions will be required to recognize the full amount of expected credit losses. The new guidance, which is referred to as the CECL model, requires that expected credit losses for financial assets held at the reporting date that are accounted for at amortized cost be measured and recognized based on historical experience and current and reasonably supportable forecasted conditions to reflect the full amount of expected credit losses. Implementation of CECL could have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations and consolidated financial statements upon adoption as it may result in the recording of an increased ALL amount, with a related adverse impact on the calculation of the Company’s regulatory capital ratios. Adoption of the CECL model will become mandatory for the Company beginning with the 2023 fiscal year.
Prepayments of loans may negatively impact our business.
Generally, our customers may prepay the principal amount of their outstanding loans at any time. The speeds at which such prepayments occur, as well as the size of such prepayments, are within our customers’ discretion and may be affected by many factors beyond our control, including changes in prevailing interest rates. If customers prepay the principal amount of their loans, and we are unable to lend those funds to other borrowers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates, our interest income will be reduced. The prevailing low interest rates increase our prepayment risk. A significant reduction in interest income could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.
Our loans and deposits are geographically concentrated and adverse local economic conditions could negatively affect our business.
Unlike many larger banking institutions, our banking operations are not geographically diversified. Substantially all of our loans, deposits and fee income are generated in northeastern and central Vermont. As a result, poor economic conditions in northeastern and central Vermont could adversely and significantly impact the demand for loans and our other financial products and services and may cause us to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in our loan portfolio. Much of our market area is located in the poorest region of the state. Economic conditions in northeastern and central Vermont are subject to various uncertainties, to a greater degree than certain other regions of the state. If economic conditions in our market area decline, we expect that our level of problem assets would increase and our prospects for growth would be impaired.
Systems failures, interruptions, cyberattacks or other breaches of information security, including those affecting our vendors, could disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.