section_1: Item 1. The Business
Organization and Operation
The Company. The Company was organized under the laws of the State of Vermont in 1982 and became a registered bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, in October 1983 when it acquired all of the voting shares of the Bank, headquartered in Derby, Vermont. The Bank is the only subsidiary of the Company and principally all of the Company’s business operations are presently conducted through it. Therefore, the following narrative and the other information about the Company contained in this report are based primarily on the Bank’s operations.
The Bank; Banking Services. Community National Bank was organized in 1851 as the Peoples Bank, and was subsequently reorganized as the National Bank of Derby Line in 1865. In 1975, after 110 continuous years of operation as the National Bank of Derby Line, the Bank acquired the Island Pond National Bank and changed its name to “Community National Bank.” On December 31, 2007, the Company completed its acquisition of LyndonBank, a Vermont bank headquartered in Lyndonville, Vermont, in a cash merger transaction. As a result of the merger, the Company expanded its existing branch network in Caledonia and Orleans Counties and extended it into Lamoille and Franklin Counties. In addition to its main office in Derby, the Company currently maintains eleven branch offices in northeastern and central Vermont and loan production offices in Chittenden County, in northwestern Vermont, and Grafton County, in western New Hampshire.
The opportunities for growth continue to be primarily in the Central Vermont and Chittenden County markets where economic activity is more robust than in the Company’s Orleans and Caledonia County markets, and where the Company is increasing its presence and market share. The Company is also focusing on expanding its presence in the neighboring state of New Hampshire through the opening of its loan production office in Lebanon, New Hampshire in 2019.
The Company, through the Bank, provides a broad range of loan and deposit services to the residents, businesses, nonprofit organizations and municipalities in its northern and central Vermont markets. Significant services offered by the Company include:
·
Business Banking - The Company offers a range of credit products for a variety of general business purposes, including financing for commercial business properties, equipment, inventories and accounts receivable, as well as letters of credit. The Company also offers business checking and other deposit accounts, cash management services, repurchase agreements, ACH and wire transfer services, card processing and remote deposit capture.
·
Commercial Real Estate Lending - The Company provides a range of products to meet the financing needs of commercial developers and investors, residential builders and developers and community development entities. Credit products are available to facilitate the purchase of land and/or build structures for business use and for investors who are developing residential or commercial property, as well as for real estate secured financing of existing businesses. The Bank has previously been recognized by the SBA as Vermont’s top Section 7(a) program lender, providing financing to startups and other small businesses not eligible for more traditional financing, and as one of Vermont’s top third party small business lenders under the SBA’s Section 504 loan program.
·
Residential Real Estate Lending - The Company provides products to help meet the home financing needs of consumers, including conventional permanent and construction/permanent (fixed, adjustable, or variable rate) financing arrangements, and FHA/VA loan products. The Company offers both fixed-rate and adjustable rate residential mortgage (ARM) loans and home equity loans. A portion of the first lien residential mortgage loans originated by the Company are sold into the secondary market. The Company offers these products through its network of banking and loan production offices. The Company does not originate subprime residential real estate loans.
·
Retail Credit - The Company provides a full-range of loan products to meet the needs of consumers, including personal loans, automobile loans and boat/recreational vehicle loans. In addition, through a marketing alliance with a third party, the Company offers credit cards.
·
Municipal and Institutional Banking - The Company provides banking services to meet the needs of state and local governments, schools, charities, membership and not-for-profit associations including deposit account services, tax-exempt loans, lines of credit and term loans. In addition, through an arrangement with the FHLBB, the Company offers a secured deposit product to its municipal customers, collateralized by FHLBB letters of credit.
·
Retail Banking - The Company provides a full-range of consumer banking services, including checking accounts, savings programs, ATMs, debit/credit cards, night deposit facilities and online, mobile and telephone banking.
The Company focuses on establishing and maintaining long-term relationships with customers and is committed to providing for the financial services needs of the communities it serves. In particular, the Company continues to emphasize its relationships with individual customers and small-to-medium-sized businesses. The Company actively evaluates the banking needs of its markets, including low- and moderate-income areas, and offers products that are responsive to the needs of its customer base. The Company’s markets provide a mix of real estate, commercial and industrial, municipal and consumer lending opportunities, as well as a stable core deposit base. Additional information about our business, including the Company’s deposit-taking activities, lending activities and credit and risk management policies, is set forth under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained in the 2020 Annual Report filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Related Trust Company. In 2002, the Bank transferred its trust operations to a newly formed Vermont-chartered non-depository trust and investment management company, CFSG, based in Newport, Vermont. The Bank’s ownership interest in CFSG is held indirectly, through CFS Partners, a Vermont limited liability company, which owns 100% of the limited liability company equity interests of CFSG. Immediately following transfer of its trust operations to CFSG, the Bank sold a two-thirds interest in CFS Partners, equally to the National Bank of Middlebury, headquartered in Middlebury, Vermont and Guaranty Bancorp Inc., the bank holding company parent of Woodsville Guaranty Savings Bank, headquartered in Woodsville, New Hampshire. CFSG offers fiduciary services throughout the market areas of the three owner financial institutions and leases space from them in some of their branch offices, including at the Bank’s facilities in Barre and Lyndonville, Vermont.
Statutory Business Trust. In 2007, the Company formed CMTV Statutory Trust I (the Trust), a Delaware statutory business trust, for the purpose of issuing $12.5 million of trust preferred securities and lending the proceeds to the Company. This funding provided a portion of the cash consideration paid by the Company in the acquisition of LyndonBank and provided additional regulatory capital. The Trust is a variable interest entity for which the Company is not the primary beneficiary, within the meaning of applicable accounting standards. Accordingly, the Trust is not consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes.
Competition
All of the Bank’s full-service banking offices are located in northern and central Vermont. The Bank’s main office is located in Derby, in Orleans County. In addition to its main office, the Bank has four other banking offices in Orleans County, one office in Essex County, two offices in Caledonia County, two offices in Washington County and one office each in Franklin and Lamoille Counties. The Bank also maintains loan production offices in Chittenden County, Vermont and Grafton County, New Hampshire. (See Part I, Item 2 (Properties) of this report.)
The Bank competes in all aspects of its business with other banks and credit unions in northern and central Vermont, including three of the largest banks operating in the state, which maintain branch offices throughout the Bank’s service area. The Bank also competes with bank and non-bank lenders in Chittenden County, Vermont and Grafton County, New Hampshire where it maintains loan production offices. Changes in the regulatory framework of the financial services industry during the past decade have broadened the competition for commercial bank products, such as deposits and loans, to include not only traditional rivals such as banks, savings banks and credit unions, but also many non-traditional rivals such as insurance companies, brokerage firms, mutual funds and consumer and commercial finance and leasing companies. In addition, many out-of-market nationwide banks, nonbank lenders and other financial service firms operate in the Company’s market areas through mass marketing solicitations by mail, radio, television, the internet and email. At the same time, technological changes have facilitated remote delivery of financial services by bank and nonbank competitors outside the context of a traditional branch bank network, thereby intensifying competition from out-of-market firms. This trend may accelerate, as customers’ use of and reliance on technology for remote delivery of financial services has accelerated as a result of the limitations imposed on in-person banking during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Competition from the tax-exempt credit union industry has also intensified in recent years. A number of the Bank’s credit union competitors, including the largest state-chartered Vermont credit union, have converted from an employment based common bond to a community common bond, thereby significantly increasing their fields of membership in the Bank’s market areas. Because federal law subsidizes credit unions by giving them a general exemption from federal income taxes, they have a significant pricing advantage over commercial banks for their deposit and loan products. This pricing advantage, coupled with the relaxing of membership criteria and regulatory restrictions on product offerings, has resulted in increased competition for the Bank from this tax exempt sector of the financial services industry.
In order to compete with other bank and non-bank service providers, the Company stresses the community orientation of its banking operations and relies to a large extent upon personal relationships established by its officers, directors and employees with their customers and on their strong ties to the local community. In addition, management’s knowledge of the local community assists it in tailoring the Company’s products and services to meet the needs of its customer base. Although competition is strong throughout the Company’s market area, management believes that the Company can continue to compete effectively, in view of its local market knowledge and community ties and its understanding of customer needs.
Employees
As of December 31, 2020, the Company did not have any employees at the holding company level. However, as of such date, the Bank employed 126 full-time employees and 10 part-time employees. The Bank provides our full-time and part-time employees with a comprehensive employee benefit package, including medical benefits, life insurance and a 401K retirement savings plan. Additionally, full-time employees also have disability insurance as part of their benefit package. The Bank is not a party to any collective bargaining agreement and management of the Bank considers its employee relations to be good.
Regulation and Supervision
The following discussion describes elements of an extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and banks, to which the Company and the Bank are subject. Regulation of banks and bank holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC, rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors.
The Company’s earnings are affected by general economic conditions, management policies, changes in federal and state laws and regulations and actions of various regulatory authorities, including those referred to below. Banking is a highly regulated business and proposals to change the laws and regulations to which the Company and the Bank are subject are frequently introduced at both the federal and state levels. The likelihood and timing of any such changes and the impact such changes may have on the Company and the Bank is impossible to predict with any certainty.
The following summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified by reference to the particular statutes and regulations.