Bank Holding Company Act. As a registered bank holding company, the Company is subject to on-going regulation, supervision and examination by the FRB, under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the Act). A bank holding company for example, must generally obtain the prior approval of the FRB before it acquires all or substantially all of the assets of any bank, or acquires ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of a bank. FRB approval is also generally required before a bank holding company may acquire more than 5% of any outstanding class of voting securities of a company other than a bank or a more than 5% interest in its property.
The Act generally limits the activity in which the Company and its subsidiaries may engage to certain specified activities, including those activities which the FRB may find, by order or regulation, to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. Some of the activities that the FRB has determined to be closely related to banking are: (1) making and servicing loans that could be made by mortgage, finance, credit card or factoring companies; (2) performing the functions of a trust company; (3) certain leasing of real or personal property; (4) providing certain financial, banking or economic data processing services; (5) except as otherwise prohibited by law, acting as an insurance agent or broker with respect to insurance that is directly related to the extension of credit or the provision of other financial services or, under certain circumstances, with respect to insurance that is sold in certain small communities in which the bank holding company system maintains banking offices; (6) acting as an underwriter for credit life insurance and credit health and accident insurance directly related to extensions of credit by the holding company system; (7) providing certain kinds of management consulting advice to unaffiliated banks and non-bank depository institutions; (8) performing real estate appraisals; (9) issuing and selling money order and similar instruments and travelers checks and selling U.S. Savings Bonds; (10) providing certain securities brokerage and related services for the account of bank customers; (11) underwriting and dealing in certain government obligations and other obligations such as bankers’ acceptances and certificates of deposit; (12) providing consumer financial counseling; (13) providing tax planning and preparation services; (14) providing check guarantee services to merchants; (15) operating a collection agency; and (16) operating a credit bureau. Trust and investment management activities conducted through a non-depository trust company such as the Company’s affiliate, CFSG, are also considered by the FRB to be permissible nonbanking activities that are closely related to banking.
Except for CFSG’s trust and investment management operations, the Company does not presently engage, directly or indirectly through any affiliate, in any other permissible non-banking activities.
A bank holding company must obtain prior FRB approval in order to purchase or redeem its own stock if the gross consideration to be paid, when added to the net consideration paid by the company for all purchases or redemptions by the company of its equity securities within the preceding 12 months, will equal 10% or more of the company’s consolidated net worth.
The Company is required to file with the FRB annual and quarterly reports and such additional information as the Board may require pursuant to the Act. The Board may also make examinations of the Company and any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company.
The Company, the Bank, CFS Partners and CFSG are all considered “affiliates” of each other for the purposes of Section 18(j) of the FDIA, as amended, and Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended. In particular, section 23A limits loans or other extensions of credit to, asset purchases with and investments in affiliates of the Bank to 10% of the Bank’s capital and surplus. In addition, such loans and extensions of credit and certain other transactions must be collateralized in specified amounts. Section 23B requires, among other things, that certain transactions between the Bank and its affiliates must be on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the Bank, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with or involving non-affiliated persons. Further, the Company is prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit or lease or sale of any property or the furnishing of services.
Capital Adequacy Requirements. Revised regulatory capital rules were adopted in July 2013 by the federal banking regulators to implement the Basel III capital standards and certain capital requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. The effect of the rules was to impose higher minimum capital requirements for bank holding companies and banks. The rules apply to all national and state banks and savings associations regardless of size and bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies with $500 million or more in total consolidated assets. More stringent requirements apply to certain larger banking organizations. The requirements in the rule were fully phased in on January 1, 2019, for the Company and the Bank.
The Basel III capital rules include certain new and higher risk-based capital and leverage requirements than those previously in place. Specifically, the following minimum capital requirements now apply to the Company and the Bank:
●
a new common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5%;
●
a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% (increased from the former 4% requirement);
●
a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from the former requirement); and
●
a leverage ratio of 4% (also unchanged from the former requirement).
Under the rules, Tier 1 capital is redefined to include two components: Common Equity Tier 1 capital and additional Tier 1 capital. The new and highest form of capital, Common Equity Tier 1 capital, consists solely of common stock (plus related surplus), retained earnings, accumulated other comprehensive income, and limited amounts of minority interests that are in the form of common stock. Additional Tier 1 capital includes other perpetual instruments historically included in Tier 1 capital, such as noncumulative perpetual preferred stock. Tier 2 capital consists of instruments that currently qualify in Tier 2 capital plus instruments that the rule has disqualified from Tier 1 capital treatment. Cumulative perpetual preferred stock, formerly includable in Tier 1 capital, is now included only in Tier 2 capital. Although AOCI is presumptively included in Common Equity Tier 1 capital, the rule provided a one-time opportunity at the end of the first quarter of 2015 for covered banking organizations to opt out of much of this treatment of AOCI. The Company and Bank made this opt-out election and, as a result, have retained the pre-existing regulatory capital treatment for AOCI.
In addition, in order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions or discretionary bonus payments to executives, a covered banking organization must maintain a “capital conservation buffer” on top of its minimum risk-based capital requirements. This buffer must consist solely of Tier 1 Common Equity, but the buffer applies to all three measurements (Common Equity Tier 1, Tier 1 capital and total capital). The capital conservation buffer was phased in incrementally over time and became fully effective on January 1, 2019, consisting of an additional amount of common equity equal to 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. The Company and the Bank satisfied this fully-phased in capital conservation buffer. Failure to maintain the required buffer would result in limitations on permissible shareholder distributions and discretionary bonus payments.
In general, the rules have had the effect of increasing capital requirements by increasing the risk weights on certain assets, including high volatility commercial real estate, certain loans past due 90 days or more or in nonaccrual status, mortgage servicing rights not includable in Common Equity Tier 1 capital, equity exposures, and claims on securities firms, that are used in the denominator of the three risk-based capital ratios.
The Company’s capital ratios exceeded all applicable regulatory requirements at December 31, 2020. (See Note 23 to the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional information about the Company’s and the Bank’s regulatory capital ratios.)
The Basel III capital standards also revised the FDIC’s “prompt corrective action” requirements (see “Prompt Corrective Action” below).
Under the 2018 Regulatory Relief Act, these capital requirements have been simplified for qualifying community banks and bank holding companies. In September 2019, the OCC and the other federal bank regulators approved a final joint rule that permits a qualifying community banking organization to opt in to a simplified regulatory capital framework. A qualifying institution that elects to utilize the simplified framework must maintain a CBLR in excess of 9%, and will thereby be deemed to have satisfied the generally applicable risk-based and other leverage capital requirements and (if applicable) the FDIC’s prompt corrective action framework. In order to utilize the CBLR framework, in addition to maintaining a CBLR of over 9%, a community banking organization must have less than $10 billion in total consolidated assets and must meet certain other criteria such as limitations on the amount of off-balance sheet exposures and on trading assets and liabilities. The CBLR is calculated by dividing tangible equity capital by average total consolidated assets. Pursuant to the CARES Act, the federal banking agencies adopted an interim rule temporarily lowering the CBLR benchmark to in excess of 8%, rather than 9%, with a phased increase of the CBLR back to the 9% level by the end of 2021. The Company and Bank continued to qualify to utilize the CBLR framework as of December 31, 2020, however, as noted in Note 23 to the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements, as of December 31, 2020, they had not elected to do so.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act. SOX was enacted to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies and to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures pursuant to the securities laws. SOX and the SEC’s implementing regulations include provisions addressing, among other matters, the duties, functions and qualifications of audit committees for all public companies; certification of financial statements by the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer; the forfeiture of bonuses or other incentive-based compensation and profits from the sale of an issuer’s securities by directors and senior officers in the twelve month period following initial publication of any financial statements that later require restatement; disclosure of off-balance sheet transactions; a prohibition on personal loans to directors and officers, except (in the case of banking companies) loans in the normal course of business; expedited filing requirements for reports of beneficial ownership of company stock by insiders; disclosure of a code of ethics for senior officers, and of any change or waiver of such code; the formation of a public accounting oversight board; auditor independence; disclosure of fees paid to the company’s auditors for non-audit services and limitations on the provision of such services; attestation requirements for company management and external auditors, relating to internal controls and procedures; and various increased criminal penalties for violations of federal securities laws.
Since 2007 Section 404 of SOX has required management of the Company to undertake a periodic assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting for 2020 is contained in Part II, Item 9A of this Report. Effective December 31, 2020, as a non-accelerated filer for SEC reporting purposes, the Company is no longer required to obtain from its external auditors an attestation on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and the operating effectiveness of these controls under Section 404(b) of SOX. The Company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, costs in connection with its on-going compliance with Section 404.
Information on the Company’s corporate governance practices, including committee charters, is available on the Company’s website at www.communitybancorpvt.com.