Under the 2018 Regulatory Relief Act, these capital requirements have been simplified for qualifying community banks and bank holding companies. In September 2019, the OCC and the other federal bank regulators approved a final joint rule that permits a qualifying community banking organization to opt in to a simplified regulatory capital framework. A qualifying institution that elects to utilize the simplified framework must maintain a CBLR in excess of 9%, and will thereby be deemed to have satisfied the generally applicable risk-based and other leverage capital requirements and (if applicable) the FDIC’s prompt corrective action framework. In order to utilize the CBLR framework, in addition to maintaining a CBLR of over 9%, a community banking organization must have less than $10 billion in total consolidated assets and must meet certain other criteria such as limitations on the amount of off-balance sheet exposures and on trading assets and liabilities. The CBLR is calculated by dividing tangible equity capital by average total consolidated assets. The final rule became effective on January 1, 2020 and although the Company and Bank qualify to utilize the CBLR framework at December 31, 2020, management has not elected to do so at this time.
We may be required to write down goodwill.
When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition may be allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired determines the amount of the purchase price that is allocated to goodwill acquired. At December 31, 2020, our goodwill totaled approximately $11.6 million, created in connection with the LyndonBank acquisition in 2007. Under current accounting standards, if we determine goodwill is impaired, we would be required to write down the value of this asset to fair value. We conduct a review each year, or more frequently if events or circumstances warrant such, to determine whether goodwill is impaired. We last completed a goodwill impairment analysis as of December 31, 2020, and concluded goodwill was not impaired. We cannot provide assurance that we will not be required to take an impairment charge in the future. Any impairment charge would have a negative effect on our shareholders’ equity and financial results and may cause a decline in our stock price.
RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK
Our common stock is not exchange-listed and our trading volume is less than that of larger public companies, which can contribute to volatility in our stock price and adversely affect the price and liquidity of an investment in our common stock.
Our common stock is included in the OTC QX market tier maintained by the OTC Markets Group, Inc. under the trading symbol CMTV, but is not traded on any securities exchange. Bid and ask quotations and trades in our stock made by certain brokerage firms are reported through the OTC Link® Alternative Trading System (ATS) maintained by a subsidiary of the OTC Markets Group, Inc. However, trading in our stock is sporadic. A public trading market for a particular class of stock having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of numerous buyers and sellers of that stock at any given time, which in turn depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which issuers have no control. The trading market in our stock does not exhibit these characteristics. The trading history of our common stock has been characterized by relatively low trading volume. This lack of an active public market means that the value of a shareholder’s investment in our common stock may be subject to sudden and exaggerated fluctuations, as individual trades have a greater effect on our reported trading price than would be the case in a broad public market with significant daily trading volume.
The market price of our common stock may also be subject to fluctuations in response to numerous other factors, including the other factors discussed in this report, regardless of our actual operating performance. The possibility of such fluctuations occurring is increased due to the illiquid nature of the trading market in our common stock. Therefore, a shareholder may be unable to sell our common stock at or above the price at which it was purchased, or at or above the current market price or at the time of his or her choosing. This illiquid trading market also makes it particularly difficult for a shareholder to dispose of a large number of shares of our stock at desired pricing or on a desired timetable.
Our common stock is subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness and preferred stock.
Shares of our common stock are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, our common stock ranks junior to all our customer deposits and other indebtedness, including our subordinated debentures, whether now existing or hereafter incurred, and other non-equity claims on us, with respect to assets available to satisfy claims. In addition, our common stock is junior in priority, including with respect to dividend and liquidation rights, to our outstanding shares of Series A Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock. Further, the common stock will be subject to the prior liquidation rights of the holders of any debt we may issue in the future and may be subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of any series of preferred stock we may issue in the future.
Securities issued by us, including our common stock, are not FDIC insured.
Securities issued by us, including our common stock, are not savings or other deposit accounts or obligations of any bank and are not insured by the FDIC, the DIF or any other governmental agency or instrumentality, or any private insurer, and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal.
Our organizational documents may have the effect of discouraging a third party from acquiring us.
Our Amended and Restated Articles of Association and By-Laws contain provisions, including a staggered board of directors and a supermajority vote requirement for certain acquisition transactions and other matters, that make it more difficult for a third party to gain control or acquire us without the consent of the board of directors. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for dissident shareholders to elect representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. To the extent that these provisions make these actions more difficult and make us a less attractive takeover candidate, they may not always be in our best interests or in the best interests of our shareholders, and in some circumstances may prevent holders of our common stock from receiving a takeover premium.
GENERAL RISKS
Market changes in delivery of financial services may adversely affect demand for our services.
Channels for delivering financial products and services to our customers are evolving rapidly, with less reliance on traditional branch facilities and more use of online and mobile banking. We compete with larger providers that have significant resources to dedicate to improved technology and delivery channels. We periodically evaluate the profitability of our branch system and other office and operational facilities to improve efficiencies. However, identification and closure of unprofitable operations and facilities can lead to restructuring charges and introduce the risk of disruptions to revenues and customer relationships.
Substantial competition could adversely affect us.
Banking is a highly competitive business. We compete actively for loan, deposit, and other financial services business in northeastern and central Vermont. Our competitors include a number of state and national banks and tax-advantaged credit unions, as well as financial and nonfinancial firms that offer services similar to those that we offer. Some of our competitors are community or regional banks that have strong local market positions. Our large bank competitors, in particular, have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources that are well in excess of ours. These larger financial institutions may have greater access to capital at a lower cost and have a higher per-borrower lending limit than our Company, which may adversely affect our ability to compete with them effectively.
In addition, technology and other changes increasingly allow parties to complete financial transactions electronically, without the need for a physical presence in a market area. We are therefore likely to face increasing competition from out-of-market competitors, including national firms. Moreover, in many cases transactions may now be completed without the involvement of banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds over the Internet and by telephone without banks. Many non-bank financial service providers have lower overhead costs and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints. If consumers do not use banks to complete their financial transactions, we could potentially lose fee income, deposits and income generated from those deposits.
New products and services are essential to remain competitive but may subject us to additional risks.
We consistently attempt to offer new products and services to our customers to remain competitive. There can be risks and uncertainties associated with these new products and services especially if they are dependent on new technologies. We may spend significant time and resources in development of new products and services to market to customers. Through our development and implementation process we may incur risks associated with delivery timetables, pricing and profitability, compliance with regulations, technology failures and shifting customer preferences. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have a material effect on our financial condition, result of operations and business.
Changes in our tax rates could affect our future results.
Our future effective tax rates and tax liabilities could be unfavorably affected by increases in applicable tax rates and by other changes in federal or state tax laws, regulations and agency interpretations. Our effective tax rates could also be affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities or by the outcomes of any examinations of our income tax returns by the IRS or our state income, franchise, sales and use or other tax returns by the Vermont Department of Taxes. Our results of operations and financial condition could also be adversely affected in the short-term by decreases in applicable tax rates that require us to revalue our deferred tax asset, as occurred in 2017 as a result of passage of the 2017 Tax Act.
Our business could suffer if we fail to attract and retain skilled personnel.
Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including executives. Any of our current employees, including our senior management, may terminate their employment with us at any time. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry can be intense and our geographic market area might not be favorably perceived by potential executive management candidates. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient qualified personnel. We may also incur increased expenses and be required to divert the attention of other senior executives to recruit replacements for the loss of any key personnel.
We are not able to offer all of the financial services and products of a financial holding company.
Banks, securities firms, and insurance companies can now combine under a “financial holding company” umbrella. Financial holding companies can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting), and merchant banking. Some of our competitors have elected to become financial holding companies. We offer only traditional banking products and, trust and investment management services indirectly through, our affiliate, CFSG.
Item 1B.
section_1B: Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
Not Applicable
Item 2.
section_2: Item 2. Properties
Although the Company does not itself own or lease real property, the Bank owns and leases various properties for its banking operations. All of the Bank’s offices are located in Vermont, other than its loan production office in Grafton County, New Hampshire.