Qualified Mortgage Rules. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB adopted significant amendments to the regulations that implement the Truth in Lending Act. These amendments became effective in January 2014, and address mortgage origination practices by certain housing creditors, including the Bank. These 2014 regulations generally require mortgage lenders to determine consumers’ ability to repay in one of two ways. The first alternative requires the mortgage lender to consider eight underwriting factors when making the credit decision. Alternatively, the mortgage lender can originate so-called qualified mortgages, or “QMs”, which are entitled to a presumption that the creditor making the loan satisfied the ability-to-repay requirements. In general, under the 2014 regulations, a qualified mortgage is a residential mortgage loan that does not have certain high risk features, the points and fees paid by a consumer do not exceed 3% of the total loan amount and the borrower’s total debt-to-income ratio is no higher than 43% (subject to certain limited exceptions for loans eligible for purchase, guarantee or insurance by a government sponsored entity or a federal agency).
In December, 2020, the CFPB adopted two rules significantly revising the QM requirements. Among other changes, the first of the new rules simplifies the definition of a QM by creating conclusive and rebuttable presumptions regarding the borrower’s ability to repay. Under the rule, a loan receives a conclusive presumption that the borrower has the ability to repay if the annual percentage rate (APR) does not exceed the average prime offer rate (APOR) for a comparable transaction by 1.5 percentage points or more as of the date the interest rate is set. A loan receives a rebuttable presumption that the borrower has the ability to repay if the annual percentage rate exceeds the APOR for a comparable transaction by 1.5 percentage points or more but by less than 2.25 percentage points. The second of the new CFPB rules creates a new category of “Seasoned QMs” for first-lien, fixed-rate covered transactions that have met certain performance requirements, are held in portfolio by the originating creditor or first purchaser for a 36-month period, comply with general restrictions on product features and points and fees, and meet certain underwriting requirements. A mortgage loan that qualifies as a Seasoned QM loan will receive a presumption of compliance with the ability-to-repay requirements. The new rules became effective on March 1, 2021, with an initial mandatory effective date of July 1, 2021. On March 3, 2021 the CFPB issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to extend the mandatory compliance date to October 1, 2021.
A lender originating a QM is protected against a legal claim that the lender failed to comply with the ability-to-repay requirement, whereas a lender originating a mortgage that is not a QM is exposed to the risk of a potential claim that the lender did not comply with the ability-to-repay rules. Failure to comply with the ability-to-repay rules could require the lender to pay damages to the borrower, and could impair the lender’s ability to enforce the loan terms or foreclose on the real estate collateral.
Integrated TILA/RESPA (TRID) Disclosures. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB issued rules revising and integrating previously separate disclosures required under the RESPA and TILA in connection with certain closed-end consumer mortgage loans. These final rules became effective in October 2015 and require lenders to provide a new Loan Estimate (which combines content from the former Good Faith Estimate required under RESPA and the initial disclosures required under TILA) not later than the third business day after submission of a loan application, and a new Closing Disclosure (which combines content of the former HUD-1 Settlement Statement required under RESPA and the final disclosures required under TILA) at least three days prior to the loan closing. Other significant changes included in the TRID rules include: (1) expansion of the scope of loans that require RESPA early disclosures, including bridge loans, vacant land loans, and construction loans; (2) changes and additions to “waiting period” requirements to close a loan; (3) reduced tolerances for estimated fees and (4) the lender, rather than the closing agent, is responsible for providing final disclosures. As with the CFPB’s ability-to-repay/QM rules, compliance with the TRID rules has increased the Company’s compliance costs and may adversely affect the profitability of our routine residential mortgage lending operations.
Community Reinvestment Act. The federal CRArequires banks to define the communities they serve, identify the credit needs of those communities, collect and maintain data for each small business or small farm loan originated or purchased by the Bank, and maintain a public file at each location. The federal banking regulators examine the institutions they regulate to assess their record of meeting the credit needs of the communities they serve, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, and assign one of the following four ratings: “outstanding,” “satisfactory,” “needs to improve” or “substantial noncompliance”. As of the Bank’s last CRA examination, completed by the OCC during 2020, it received a rating of “Outstanding”.
Home Mortgage Disclosure Act. The federal HMDA, which is implemented by CFPB’s Regulation C, requires mortgage lenders that maintain offices within MSAs to report and make available to the public specified information regarding their residential mortgage lending activities, such as the pricing of home mortgage loans, including the “rate spread” between the interest rate on loans and certain treasury securities and other benchmarks. The Bank became subject to HMDA reporting requirements as a result of its merger with LyndonBank in 2007, as the former LyndonBank branch in Enosburg Falls in Franklin County is included within the Burlington, Vermont MSA. The CFPB’s HMDA rule adopts a dwelling-secured standard for all loans or lines of credit that are for personal, family, or household purposes. Thus, many consumer-purpose transactions, including closed-end home-equity loans, home-equity lines of credit, and reverse mortgages, are subject to the regulation. Most commercial-purpose transactions (i.e., loans or lines of credit not for personal, family, or household purposes) are subject to the regulation only if they are for the purpose of home purchase, home improvement, or refinancing. The rule excludes from coverage home improvement loans that are not secured by a dwelling (i.e., home improvement loans that are unsecured or that are secured by some other type of collateral) and all agricultural-purpose loans and lines of credit. HMDA rule amendments that became effective January 1, 2018 significantly increased the overall amount of data required to be collected and submitted, including additional data points about the applicable loans and expanded data about the borrowers. However, the 2018 Regulatory Relief Act provided an exemption from the requirement to collect these additional data fields for banks that have at least a “Satisfactory” CRA rating that originate fewer than 500 closed-end mortgage loans or fewer than 500 open-end lines of credit per year. The Bank qualifies for this relief.
Flood Insurance Reform. The Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012 (Biggert-Waters Act), as amended by the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014, modified the National Flood Insurance Program by: (i) increasing the maximum civil penalty for Flood Disaster Protection Act violations to $2,000 and eliminating the annual penalty cap; (ii) requiring certain lenders to escrow premiums and fees for flood insurance on residential improved real estate; (iii) directing lenders to accept private flood insurance and to notify borrowers of its availability; (iv) amending the force placement requirement provisions; and (v) permitting lenders to charge borrowers costs for lapses in or insufficient coverage. The civil penalty and force placed insurance provisions were effective immediately.
In July 2015, certain federal agencies issued a joint final rule exempting: (1) detached structures that are not used as a residence from the mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements and (2) HELOCs, business purpose loans, nonperforming loans, loans with terms of less than one year, loans for co-ops and condominiums, and subordinate loans on the same property from the mandatory escrow of flood insurance premium requirements. Additionally, the final rule requires certain lenders to escrow flood insurance payments and offer the option to escrow flood insurance premiums on residential improved real estate securing a loan, effective January 1, 2016. New rules effective July 1, 2019, require banks and other regulated financial institutions to accept certain private insurance policies in addition to National Flood Insurance Program policies.
Reserve Requirements. FRB Regulation D requires all depository institutions to maintain reserves against their transaction accounts (generally, demand deposits, NOW accounts and certain other types of accounts that permit payments or transfers to third parties) and non-personal time deposits (generally, money market deposit accounts or other savings deposits held by corporations or other depositors that are not natural persons, and certain other types of time deposits), subject to certain exemptions, at a level established by the FRB. Because required reserves must be maintained in the form of either vault cash, a non-interest bearing account at the FRBB or a pass through account (as defined by the FRB), the effect of maintaining required reserves is to reduce the amount of the Company’s interest-bearing assets. Effective March 26, 2020, the FRB reduced the required reserve ratio to 0 percent, thereby eliminating the reserve requirement. However, the FRB retains the authority to reimpose a reserve requirement in the future.
Federal Home Loan Bank System. The Bank is a member of the FHLB System, which consists of 12 regional Federal Home Loan Banks. The FHLB provides a central credit facility primarily for member institutions. Member institutions are required to purchase and hold shares of capital stock in the applicable regional FHLB (the FHLBB, in the case of the Bank), in an amount at least equal to the sum of 0.35% of the aggregate principal amount of its unpaid residential mortgage loans and similar obligations at the beginning of each year and 4.5% of its advances (borrowings) from the FHLBB. The Bank was in compliance with this requirement with an investment in FHLBB stock at December 31, 2020 of $768,400. As a member, the Bank is subject to future capital calls by the FHLBB in order to maintain compliance with its capital plan.
FRB Executive Compensation Guidelines. The FRB has issued comprehensive guidance on executive compensation policies, intended to ensure that the incentive compensation practices of banking organizations do not undermine their safety and soundness by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The guidance covers all employees that have the ability to affect materially an institution’s risk profile, either individually or as part of a group, and establishes that incentive compensation arrangements should (1) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the institution’s ability to identify and manage effectively; (2) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management; and (3) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the board of directors. The guidance instructed institutions to begin an immediate review of their incentive compensation policies to ensure that they do not encourage excessive risk-taking and implement corrective programs as needed. Where deficiencies in incentive compensation arrangements exist, they must be immediately addressed. For institutions such as the Company that are not “large, complex banking organizations” as defined in the guidance, the FRB will review the incentive compensation arrangements as part of its regular, risk-focused examination process and not in a separate examination. These examinations will be tailored to the scope and complexity of the institution’s activity and compensation arrangements. The findings will be included in the FRB’s examination report and deficiencies will be incorporated into the institution’s supervisory ratings. Enforcement actions may be taken against an institution if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the institution’s safety and soundness and the institution fails to take prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies.