Prompt Corrective Action. The Bank is subject to regulatory capital requirements established under FDICIA. Among other things, FDICIA identifies five capital categories for insured depository institutions (well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized) and requires the respective U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies to implement systems for “prompt corrective action” for insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements within such categories. FDICIA imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the category in which an institution is classified. Failure to meet the capital guidelines could also subject a banking institution to capital raising requirements. An “undercapitalized” bank must develop a capital restoration plan and its parent holding company must guarantee that bank’s compliance with the plan. The liability of the parent holding company under any such guarantee is limited to the lessor of 5% of the bank’s assets at the time it became undercapitalized or the amount needed to comply with the plan. Furthermore, in the event of the bankruptcy of the parent holding company, such guarantee would take priority over the parent’s general unsecured creditors. In addition, FDICIA requires the various regulatory agencies to prescribe certain non-capital standards for safety and soundness related generally to operations and management, asset quality and executive compensation and permits regulatory action against a financial institution that does not meet such standards.
The federal bank regulatory agencies, including the OCC, have adopted substantially similar regulations that define the five capital categories identified by FDICIA. These regulations establish various degrees of corrective action to be taken when an FDIC-insured depository institution is considered undercapitalized. Effective January 1, 2015, the FDIC’s Prompt Corrective Action regulations were revised in accordance with the Basel III capital standards. The enhanced requirements (i) introduce a Common Equity Tier 1 ratio requirement at each capital category (other than critically undercapitalized), and set the required Common Equity Tier 1 ratio at 6.5% for well-capitalized status; (ii) increase the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement for each category (other than critically undercapitalized), and set the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio for well-capitalized status at 8.0% (as compared to 6.0% under the prior rule); and (iii) eliminate the provision that permitted a bank with a composite supervisory rating of 1 to have a 3% leverage ratio and still be considered adequately capitalized. The Basel III capital standards do not change the total risk-based capital requirement for any prompt corrective action category.
As of December 31, 2020, the Bank was considered “well capitalized” under FDICIA’s Prompt Corrective Action capital requirements. (See Note 23 to the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional information about the Bank’s regulatory capital ratios.)
Safety and Soundness Regulations. Pursuant to the FDIA, the federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted safety and soundness guidelines establishing general standards relating to internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate risk exposure, asset growth, asset quality, earnings, compensation, fees and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify, monitor, and manage the risks and exposures specified in the guidelines. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder. In addition, the safety and soundness regulations include enforcement provisions, including authority for the bank regulatory agencies to require a financial institution in some circumstances to create and implement a compliance plan.
Deposit Insurance. The deposits of the Bank are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) of the FDIC up to the limits set forth under applicable law and are subject to the deposit insurance premium assessments of the DIF. The FDIC imposes a risk-based deposit premium assessments system, which was amended pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 and further amended by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under this system, as amended, the assessment rates for an insured depository institution vary according to the level of risk incurred in its activities. To arrive at an assessment rate for a banking institution, the FDIC places it in one of four risk categories determined by reference to its capital levels and supervisory ratings. In addition, in the case of those institutions in the lowest risk category, the FDIC further determines its assessment rate based on certain specified financial ratios or, if applicable, its long-term debt ratings. The assessment rate schedule can change from time to time, at the discretion of the FDIC, subject to certain limits. In addition, previously all FDIC insured depository institutions were required to pay a pro rata portion of the interest due on the obligations issued by the FICO to fund the closing and disposal of failed thrift institutions by the Resolution Trust Corporation. The FDIC discontinued collection of these payments in March 2019.
The Dodd-Frank Act changed the assessment formula for determining deposit insurance premiums and modified certain insurance coverage provisions of the FDIA. The FDIC’s implementing rules, which redefined the base for FDIC insurance assessments from the amount of insured deposits to average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity, became effective April 1, 2011. The Bank’s total FDIC insurance assessment for 2020 was $300,643.
The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased from $100,000 to $250,000 the maximum per depositor FDIC insurance amount.
Brokered Deposits. Under FDICIA, an FDIC-insured bank is prohibited from accepting brokered deposits without prior approval of the FDIC unless it is well capitalized under the FDICIA’s prompt corrective actions guidelines. The Company participates in the CDARS of the Promontory Interfinancial Network, which uses a deposit-matching engine to match CDARS deposits in other participating banks, dollar-for-dollar. This product, also known as reciprocal deposits, is designed to provide deposit insurance in excess of FDIC limits and thereby enhance customer attraction and retention, build deposits and improve net interest margins. Until recently reciprocal deposits were considered a form of brokered deposits, which are treated less favorably than other deposits for certain purposes; however, a provision of the 2018 Regulatory Relief Act provides that reciprocal deposits held by a well-capitalized and well managed bank are no longer classified as brokered deposits. CDARS also permits the “one-way” purchase of deposits, which the Company utilizes from time to time for liquidity management purposes. CDARS one-way deposits are considered brokered deposits for certain purposes under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and FDIC regulations. As of December 31, 2020 the Company had CDARS deposits totaling approximately $4.9 million in exchanged funds and $0 in one-way funds. The Company also relies from time to time on purchased wholesale deposit funding, which is a form of brokered deposits. The Company had $4.2 million in purchased wholesale deposits outstanding at December 31, 2020. The Company’s Asset, Liability and Funds Management Policy limits the use of brokered deposits to 5% of total assets.
USA Patriot Act. The USA PATRIOT Act is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law enforcement and the intelligence community to work cooperatively to combat terrorism on a variety of fronts. The Act contains extensive anti-money laundering and financial transparency provisions and imposes various requirements, including standards for verifying client identification at account opening, and rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. The Secretary of the Treasury and federal banking regulators have adopted several regulations to implement these provisions. The Act also amended the federal Bank Holding Company Act and the Bank Merger Act to require the federal banking regulatory authorities to consider the effectiveness of a bank holding company or a financial institution’s anti-money laundering activities when reviewing an application to expand operations. As required by law, the Bank has in place a Bank Secrecy Act and Anti-Money Laundering compliance program, as well as a customer identification program. (See “BSA/AML Requirements” below.)
BSA/AML Requirements. The Company is subject to a number of AML and regulations as a result of being a U.S.-based financial institution. AML requirements are primarily derived from the BSA, as amended by the USA Patriot Act. These laws and regulations are designed to prevent the financial system from being used by criminals to hide illicit proceeds and to impede terrorists’ ability to access and move funds used in support of terrorist activities. Among other things, BSA/AML laws and regulations require financial institutions to establish AML programs that meet certain standards, including, in some instances, expanded reporting, particularly in the area of suspicious transactions, and enhanced information gathering and recordkeeping requirements. The Company maintains an AML program designed to ensure that it is in compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations related to AML and anti-terrorist financing initiatives. The AML program provides for a system of internal controls to ensure that appropriate due diligence and, when necessary, enhanced due diligence, including obtaining and maintaining appropriate documentation, is conducted at account opening and updated, as necessary, through the course of the client relationship. The AML program is also designed to ensure there are appropriate methods of monitoring transactions and account relationships to identify potentially suspicious activity and report suspicious activity to governmental authorities in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. In addition, the AML program requires the training of appropriate personnel with regard to AML and anti-terrorist financing issues and provides for independent testing to ensure that the AML program is in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Non-compliance with BSA/AML laws or failure to maintain adequate policies and procedures can lead to significant monetary penalties and reputational damage, and federal regulators evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering when determining whether to approve a bank merger, bank holding company acquisition or other certain other activities.
AML customer due diligence requirements became effective on May 11, 2018. Among other things, these new regulations require the Company to collect information on the beneficial ownership and controlling person of legal entity clients and to verify their identity.
The U.S. Treasury’s OFAC rules prohibit U.S. persons from engaging in financial transactions with certain individuals, entities, or countries, identified as “Specially Designated Nationals,” such as terrorists and narcotics traffickers. These rules require the blocking of assets held by, and prohibit transfers of property to such individuals, entities or countries. Blocked assets, such as property or bank deposits, cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. The Company maintains an OFAC program designed to ensure compliance with OFAC requirements.
Financial Privacy. Under the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999 all financial institutions, including the Company, are required to adopt privacy policies, restrict the sharing of nonpublic consumer customer data with nonaffiliated parties, and establish procedures and practices to protect customer data from unauthorized access. The Company is also subject to similar, but more stringent, requirements under state law, including the Vermont Financial Privacy Act. In addition, the Company is subject to the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, including the amendments adopted in the federal Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (FACT Act). The FACT Act includes many provisions concerning national credit reporting standards and permits consumers to opt out of information sharing among affiliated companies for marketing purposes. It also requires financial institutions to notify their customers if they report negative information about them to a credit bureau or if they are granted credit terms less favorable than those generally available. The CFPB has extensive rulemaking authority under the FACT Act and has promulgated rules implementing the Act, including rules limiting information sharing for affiliate marketing and rules requiring programs to identify, detect and mitigate certain identity theft red flags. The Company is also subject to the requirements of the Vermont Fair Credit Reporting Act, which generally requires an individual’s consent in order to obtain a credit report.