We depend upon data processing, software, communication, and information access and exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet, and we rely on the services of a variety of third party vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. Consequently, we are subject to certain related operational risks, both in our operations and through those of our service providers. These risks include, but are not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, inadequate or failed internal processes, customer or employee fraud, cyberattacks and catastrophic failures resulting from civil unrest, terrorist acts or natural disasters. Despite the safeguards we maintain, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. Information security risks have increased significantly due to the use of online, telephone and mobile banking channels by customers and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. Our technologies, systems and networks and those of certain of our service providers as well as our customers’ devices, may be the target of cyberattacks, computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers’ confidential, proprietary and other information, the theft of customer assets through fraudulent transactions or disruption of our or our customers’ or other third parties’ business operations. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and we could be exposed to claims from customers, any or all of which could adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition. While we have instituted safeguards and controls, we cannot provide assurance that they will be effective in all cases, and their failure in some circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.
In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors if made available. If this information is inaccurate or incomplete, we may suffer financial or reputational harm or other adverse effects with respect to the operation of our business, our financial condition and our results of operations.
Environmental liability associated with our lending activities could result in losses.
In the course of business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans originated or purchased that are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that material environmental violations could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we might be required to remedy these violations at the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of remedial action could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
REGULATORY, LEGAL AND ACCOUNTING RISKS
Our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock and to service our debt depends primarily on dividends from our subsidiary and may be subject to regulatory and contractual limitations.
As a holding company, our cash flow typically comes from dividends that our bank subsidiary, Community National Bank, pays to us. Therefore, our ability to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and to service our subordinated debentures, depends on the dividends we receive from the Bank. Dividend payments from the Bank are subject to federal statutory and regulatory limitations, generally based on net profits and retained earnings and may be subject to additional prudential considerations, such as capital planning needs. In addition, FRB policy, which applies to us as a registered bank holding company, provides that dividends by bank holding companies should generally be paid out of current earnings looking back over a one-year period and should not be paid if regulatory capital levels are deemed insufficient. Further, regulatory capital requirements could curtail our ability to pay dividends in some cases if we do not maintain a required capital conservation buffer. Our failure to pay dividends on our common or preferred stock or our failure to service our debt could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Moreover, if sufficient dividend funding from the Bank is not available to cover all our requirements, we would be obligated first to pay interest and, if applicable, principal on our debentures and then to pay dividends on our preferred stock before making any dividend payments on our common stock.
Although we have generally paid quarterly cash dividends on our common stock, we cannot provide any assurance that dividends will continue to be paid in the future or that the dividend rate will not be reduced in future periods.
Our banking business is highly regulated, and we may be adversely affected by changes in law and regulation.
We are subject to regulation and supervision by the FRB, and the Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the OCC. Federal laws and regulations govern numerous matters affecting us, including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital, the permissible types, amounts and terms of loans and investments, permissible nonbanking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. The OCC possesses the power to issue cease and desist orders to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to its supervision, and the FRB possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. We are also subject to certain state laws, including certain Vermont laws designed to protect consumers of banking products and services. These and other federal and state laws and restrictions limit the manner in which we may conduct business and obtain financing.
Our business is highly regulated and the various federal and state laws, rules, regulations, and supervisory guidance, policies and interpretations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. It is impossible to predict the nature of such changes or their competitive impact on the banking and financial services industry in general or on our banking operations in particular. Such changes may, among other things, increase our cost of doing business, limit our permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance between banks and other financial institutions. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies or supervisory guidance could result in enforcement and other legal actions by federal or state authorities, including criminal and civil penalties, the loss of FDIC insurance, revocation of a banking charter, other sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, litigation by private parties, and/or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.
The requirement to record certain assets and liabilities at fair value may adversely affect our financial results.
We report certain assets, including investment securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs to estimate fair value. Because we carry these assets on our books at their estimated fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. For example, we could be required to recognize OTTI in future periods with respect to investment securities in our portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of our investment securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period.
Changes in accounting standards could materially affect our financial statements.
From time to time FASB and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements and applicable disclosures in our SEC filings. These changes can be very difficult to predict and can materially affect how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. Implementation of accounting changes, with associated professional consultation and advice, can be costly, even if the change will not have any material effect on our financial statements.
Our internal controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.
Management has designed and implemented, and periodically reviews and updates, our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. However, any system of controls, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures, or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
We are subject to detailed capital requirements and cannot ensure that we will qualify for simplified capital calculations in any future period.
As of January 1, 2015, we were required to comply with the Base III capital rules issued by the federal banking agencies that implemented the Basel III capital standards and established the minimum capital levels required under the Dodd-Frank Act. These capital rules require banks and bank holding companies to maintain a minimum common equity Tier I capital ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets, a minimum Tier I capital ratio of 6.0% of risk-weighted assets, a minimum total capital ratio of 8.0% of risk-weighted assets, and a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0%. The capital rules require the Bank and the Company to maintain a 2.5% common equity Tier I capital conservation buffer above the minimum risk-based capital requirements for adequately capitalized institutions in order to avoid restrictions on the ability to pay dividends, discretionary bonuses, and to engage in share repurchases. The Company and the Bank met these requirements as of December 31, 2020. The Base III capital rules permanently grandfathered trust preferred securities issued before May 19, 2010 for institutions with less than $15.0 billion in total assets as of December 31, 2009, subject to a limit of 25% of Tier I capital. Our trust preferred securities qualify for this grandfather treatment. The rules also increased the required capital for certain categories of assets, including high volatility construction real estate loans and certain exposures related to securitizations, but retained the previous capital treatment of residential mortgages. These standards could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or require us to reduce business levels or raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Under the rules, we were permitted to make, and did make, a one-time, permanent election to continue to exclude accumulated other comprehensive income from capital.