The Company’s administrative offices are located at the main offices of the Bank on U.S. Route 5 in Derby, Vermont, with total office space of approximately 34,000 square feet, including retail banking offices, an operations center as well as a community room used by the Bank for meetings and various functions. This community room has a secure outside access making it possible for the Bank to offer it to non-profit organizations after banking hours free of charge. This office is equipped with a remote drive-up facility and a drive-up ATM as well as an inside lobby ATM.
In addition to its main office, the Company currently owns or leases the following premises in six Vermont counties and one New Hampshire County:
1 All listed locations are operating bank branch offices, except as otherwise noted in footnote 3.
2 The Bank leases space at two of its branch locations to its affiliated trust and investment management affiliate, CFSG.
3 Loan production offices (LPO), in Chittenden County, in eastern Vermont and Grafton County, in western New Hampshire.
4 The Bank’s lease at 95 State Street expired on December 31, 2020 and was on a month by month lease agreement through March 31, 2021. As of February, 2021, the Bank now occupies and leases a newly remodeled branch office located at 99 State Street.
The Company maintains ATMs at the main office and all branch locations.
All of the Company’s owned premises are free and clear of any mortgages or encumbrances and, in management’s view, all locations are suitable for conducting the Bank’s business.
Item 3.
section_3: Item 3. Legal Proceedings
There are no pending legal proceedings to which the Company or the Bank is a party or of which any of its property is the subject, other than routine litigation incidental to its banking business, none of which, in the opinion of management, is material to the Company’s consolidated operations or financial condition.
Item 4.
section_4: Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
Not Applicable
PART II.
Item 5.
section_5: Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Information on the trading market in, market price of, and dividends paid on, the Company’s common stock is incorporated by reference to the section of the 2020 Annual Report under the caption “Common Stock Performance by Quarter” immediately following the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, filed as Exhibit 13 to this report. The balance of the information required by item 201 of Regulation S-K is omitted in accordance with the regulatory relief available to smaller reporting companies under applicable SEC disclosure rules, as amended in 2018 Release Nos. 33-10513 and 34-83550.
The following table provides information as to the purchases of the Company’s common stock during the three months ended December 31, 2020, by the Company or by any affiliated purchaser (as defined in SEC Rule 10b-18). During the monthly periods presented, the Company did not have any publicly announced repurchase plans or programs.
1)
All 1,367 shares were purchased for the account of participants invested in the Company Stock Fund under the Company’s Retirement Savings Plan by or on behalf of the Plan Trustee, the Human Resources Committee of the Bank. Such share purchases were facilitated through CFSG, which provides certain investment advisory services to the Plan. Both the Plan Trustee and CFSG may be considered affiliates of the Company under Rule 10b-18.
Item 6.
section_6: Item 6. Selected Financial Data
Omitted, in accordance with (i) the regulatory relief available to smaller reporting companies in SEC Release Nos. 33-10513 and 34-83550, and (ii) the repeal of Item 301 of Regulation S-K adopted in SEC Release Nos. 33-10890 and 34-90459.
Item 7.
section_7: Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Incorporated by reference to the section of the 2020 Annual Report under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” immediately following the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”, filed as Exhibit 13 to this report.
Item 7A.
section_7A: Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
Omitted, in accordance with the regulatory relief available to smaller reporting companies in SEC Release Nos. 33-10513 and 34-83550.
Item 8.
section_8: Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
The audited consolidated financial statements and related notes of Community Bancorp. and Subsidiary and the report thereon of the independent registered accounting firm of Berry Dunn McNeil & Parker, LLC are incorporated herein by reference from the 2020 Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this report.
In accordance with the regulatory relief available to smaller reporting companies in SEC Release Nos. 33-10513 and 34-83550, the Company has elected to present audited statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in shareholders’ equity for each of the preceding two, rather than three, fiscal years.
Item 9.
section_9: Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
None
Item 9A.
section_9A: Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). As of December 31, 2020, an evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. Based on that evaluation, management concluded that its disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2020 were effective in ensuring that material information required to be disclosed in the reports it files with the Commission under the Exchange Act was recorded, processed, summarized, and reported on a timely basis.
For this purpose, the term “disclosure controls and procedures” means controls and other procedures of the Company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by it in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
The Management of the Company is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements and other financial information contained in this Form 10-K. Management is also responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and for identifying the framework used to evaluate its effectiveness. Management has designed processes, internal control and a business culture that foster financial integrity and accurate reporting. The Company’s comprehensive system of internal control over financial reporting was designed to provide reasonable assurances regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company’s accounting policies and internal control over financial reporting, established and maintained by Management, are under the general oversight of the Company’s Board of Directors, including the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee.
Management has made a comprehensive review, evaluation, and assessment of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020. The standard measures adopted by Management in making its evaluation are the measures in the 2013 Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based upon its review and evaluation, Management concluded that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020.
In accordance with relief granted to non-accelerated filers as defined in SEC Release No. 34-88365, this Annual Report does not contain an attestation report of the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm regarding management’s internal control over financial reporting.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2020 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Item 9B.
section_9B: Item 9B. Other Information
None
PART III.
Item 10.
section_10: Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
The following is incorporated by reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2021 Annual Meeting.
Listing of the names, ages, principal occupations, business experience and specific qualifications of the incumbent directors and nominees under the caption “PROPOSAL I - ELECTION OF DIRECTORS.”
Listing of the names, ages, titles and business experience of the executive officers under the caption EXECUTIVE OFFICERS.”
Information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 under the caption “SHARE OWNERSHIP INFORMATION -Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.”
Information regarding changes in the Company’s procedures for submission of director nominations by shareholders under the caption “SHAREHOLDER NOMINATIONS AND OTHER PROPOSALS.”
Information regarding whether a member of the Audit Committee qualifies as an audit committee financial expert under applicable SEC rules, under the caption “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE - Board Committees.”
The Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers and the Principal Executive Officer is available on the Company’s website at www.communitybancorpvt.com. The Code is also listed as Exhibit 14 to this report and incorporated by reference to a prior filing with the SEC. There were no waivers of any provision of the Code during 2020.
Item 11.
section_11: Item 11. Executive Compensation
The following is incorporated by reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2021 Annual Meeting:
Information regarding compensation of directors under the captions “PROPOSAL I - ELECTION OF DIRECTORS - Directors’ Fees and Other Compensation” and “-Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan.”
Information regarding executive compensation and benefit plans under the caption “EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.”
The information required under paragraphs (e)(4) and (e)(5) of Item 407 of Regulation S-K is omitted in accordance with the regulatory relief available to smaller reporting companies in SEC Release Nos. 33-10513 and 34-83550.
Item 12.
section_12: Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
The following is incorporated by reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2021 Annual Meeting:
Information regarding the share ownership of management and principal shareholders under the caption “SHARE OWNERSHIP INFORMATION.”
The Company does not maintain any equity compensation plans for which disclosure is required under Item 201(d) of SEC Regulation S-K.
Item 13.
section_13: Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
The following is incorporated by reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2021 Annual Meeting:
Information regarding transactions with management under the caption “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE -Transactions with Management.”
Information regarding the independence of directors under the caption “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE - Director Independence.”
Item 14.
section_14: Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services
The following is incorporated by reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2021 Annual Meeting under the caption “PROPOSAL 2 - RATIFICATION OF SELECTION OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS - Fees Paid to Independent Auditors”:
Fees paid to the principal accountant for various audit functions including, but not limited to, the audit of the annual financial statements in the Company’s Form 10-K Report and review of the financial statements in the Company’s Form 10-Q Reports.
Description of the audit committee’s pre-approval policies and procedures required by paragraph (c) (7)(I) of rule 2-01of Regulation S-X.
PART IV.
Item 15.
section_15: Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
(a) Financial Statements
The following are included in this report and are incorporated by reference to the 2020 Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this report:
Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2020 and 2019
Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019