We invest our funds held for clients in high quality, investment-grade marketable securities, money markets, and other cash equivalents. However, these funds held for clients are subject to general market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks. These risks may be exacerbated during periods of unusual financial market volatility. The interest we earn on funds held for clients may decrease as a result of a decline in funds available to invest and lower interest rates. In addition, during periods of volatility in the credit markets, certain types of investments may not be available to us or may become too risky for us to invest in, further reducing the interest we may earn on client funds. If we sell available-for-sale securities to satisfy short-term funding requirements, we may recognize losses, which would reduce the interest income earned on funds held for clients.
Constriction in the credit markets may impact the availability of financing, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings. Historically, we have periodically borrowed against available credit arrangements to meet short-term liquidity needs. However, should we require additional short-term liquidity during days of large outflows of client funds, a credit constriction may limit our ability to access those funds or the flexibility to obtain them at interest rates that would be acceptable to us. Growth in services for funding payrolls of our clients in the temporary staffing industry may be constricted if access to financing becomes limited. In addition, our ability to grow through significant acquisitions may be limited. See also “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” If all of these financial and economic circumstances were to remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
We made and may continue to make acquisitions that involve numerous risks and uncertainties. Acquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities, and difficulties in integrating operations. Successful integration involves many challenges, including the difficulty of developing and marketing new products and services, our exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, and the loss of key employees of an acquired business. The integration and conversion of our acquired operations or other future acquisitions, if any, could result in increased operating costs if the anticipated synergies of operating these businesses as one are not achieved, a loss of strategic opportunities if management is distracted by the integration process, and a loss of customers if our service levels drop during or following the integration process. In addition, an acquisition could adversely impact cash flows and/or operating results, and dilute stockholder interests, for many reasons, including charges to our income to reflect the impairment of acquired intangible assets including goodwill, interest costs and debt service requirements for any debt incurred in connection with an acquisition, and any issuance of securities in connection with an acquisition or new business venture that dilutes or lessens the rights of our current stockholders. If the integration of any or all of our acquisitions or future acquisitions is not successful, it could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price.
Certain of our debt agreements contain covenants that may constrain the operation of our business, and our failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The Note Purchase and Guarantee Agreement (the “Agreement”) that we entered into in January 2019 in connection with our acquisition of Oasis, contains covenants which may restrict our flexibility to operate our business. These covenants include restrictions regarding the incurrence of liens and indebtedness, substantial changes in the general nature of our business and our subsidiaries (taken as a whole), certain merger transactions, certain sales of assets and other matters, all subject to certain exceptions. The Agreement also contains financial covenants, which are reviewed for compliance on a quarterly basis, that require us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio of 3.50:1.00 and a minimum interest coverage ratio of 2.00:1.00. In addition, certain of our indebtedness may not exceed 20% of our consolidated stockholders’ equity. If we do not comply with these covenants, it could result in material adverse effects on our operating results and our financial condition.
We may not be able to attract and retain qualified people, which could impact the quality of our services and customer satisfaction. Our success, growth, and financial results depend in part on our continuing ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified people at all levels, including management, technical, compliance, and sales personnel. Competition for these individuals can be intense, and we may not be able to retain our key people, or attract, assimilate, or retain other highly-qualified individuals in the future, which could harm our future success.
Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may harm our competitive position and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, we may be unable to do so effectively in all cases. Our intellectual property could be wrongfully acquired as a result of a cyberattack or other wrongful conduct by employees or third-parties. To the extent that our intellectual property is not protected effectively by trademarks, copyrights, patents, or other means, other parties with knowledge of our intellectual property, including former employees, may seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own and others’ advantage. Competitors may also misappropriate our trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights or duplicate our technology and products. Any significant impairment or misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary information could harm our business and our brand and may adversely affect our ability to compete. Third-parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. To the extent we seek to enforce or must defend our intellectual property rights with litigation, we could incur significant expenses and/or be required to pay substantial damages. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or vendors in connection with claims or litigation. The litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights could be costly and time-consuming.
In the event we receive negative publicity, our reputation and the value of our brand could be harmed, and clients may not use our products and services, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Negative publicity relating to events or activities attributed to us, our corporate employees, or others associated with us, whether or not justified, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. If we are unable to maintain quality HCM and employee benefit-related solutions and PEO and insurance solutions, our reputation with our clients may be harmed and the value of our brand may diminish. In addition, if our brand is negatively impacted, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, including challenges retaining clients or attracting new clients and recruiting talent and retaining employees.
We are involved in litigation from time to time arising from the operation of our business and, as such, we could incur substantial judgments, fines, legal fees, or other costs. We are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from customers, employees, or other third-parties for various actions. From time to time, we are involved in litigation involving claims related to, among other things, breach of contract, tortious conduct, and employment and labor law matters. The damages sought against us in some of these litigation proceedings could be substantial. Although we maintain liability insurance for some litigation claims, if one or more of the claims were to greatly exceed our insurance coverage limits or if our insurance policies do not cover a claim, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk: Refer to the “Market Risk Factors” section contained in Item 7A of this Form 10-K for a discussion on this type of risk, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
Item 1B.
section_1B: Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
None.
Item 2.
section_2: Item 2. Properties
We owned and leased the following properties as of May 31, 2020:
Our facilities in Rochester, New York house various distribution, processing, and technology functions, certain ancillary functions, a telemarketing unit, and other back-office functions. Facilities outside of Rochester, New York are in various locations throughout the U.S. and house our service centers, fulfillment centers and sales functions. Our international locations primarily house our European operations in Denmark and Germany and a location in India houses information technology, service, and sales support functions. We believe that adequate, suitable lease space will continue to be available to meet our needs.
Item 3.
section_3: Item 3. Legal Proceedings
We are subject to various claims and legal matters that arise in the normal course of our business. These include disputes or potential disputes related to breach of contract, tort, employment-related claims, tax claims, patent, statutory, and other matters.
Our management currently believes that resolution of outstanding legal matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. However, legal matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and there exists the possibility that the ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position and the results of operations in the period in which any such effect is recorded.
Item 4.
section_4: Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
PART II
Item 5.
section_5: Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “PAYX”. Dividends have historically been paid on our common stock in August, November, February, and May. The level and continuation of future dividends are dependent on our future earnings and cash flows and are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors (the “Board”).
As of June 30, 2020, there were 10,075 holders of record of our common stock, which includes registered holders and participants in the Paychex, Inc. Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. There were also 4,031 participants in the Paychex, Inc. Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan and 4,393 participants in the Paychex, Inc. Employee Stock Ownership Plan.
In May 2019, our Board approved a program to repurchase up to $400.0 million of our common stock with authorization expiring in May 2022. All shares repurchased during fiscal 2020 were retired and were as follows:
The following graph shows a five-year comparison of the total cumulative returns of investing $100 on May 31, 2015, in Paychex common stock, the S&P 500 Index, and a Peer Group Index. All comparisons of stock price performance shown assume reinvestment of dividends. We are a participant in the S&P 500 Index, a market group of companies with a larger than average market capitalization. Our Peer Group is a group of companies with comparable revenue and net income, who are in a comparable industry, or who are direct competitors of Paychex (as detailed below).
There can be no assurance that our stock performance will continue with the same or similar trends depicted in the graph above. We neither make nor endorse any predictions as to future stock performance.
The Governance & Compensation Committee of our Board annually reviews and approves the selection of Peer Group companies, adjusting the group from year to year based upon our business and changes in the Peer Group companies’ business or the comparability of their metrics. The Peer Group may also be adjusted in the event of mergers, acquisitions, or other significant economic changes. The Peer Group was adjusted for fiscal 2020. DST Systems, Inc. and Robert Half International, Inc. were removed and replaced with IHS Markit Ltd. and Worldpay, Inc., as they are more closely aligned with the Paychex business. Both the old and new peer groups are presented for this year of transition.