State-by-state resources to help our clients understand specific directives that may impact their business.
The COVID-19 Help Center also provides resources to our key business partners, including accountants, financial institutions, financial advisors, and national associations. The COVID-19 Help Center has been translated into Spanish to serve our Spanish-speaking clients.
Our strong balance sheet and operational flexibility allowed us to successfully manage through the initial impact of COVID-19 while protecting our cash flow and liquidity. We will continue to evaluate the nature and extent of future changes to market and economic conditions related to COVID-19 and will assess the potential impact to our business and financial position. We expect to take a cautious approach to modifying our office and travel restrictions and will wait until we have a clearer vision on how the pandemic unfolds and utilizing guidance provided by the federal, state, and local governments.
For further information on the risks posed to our business from the COVID-19 pandemic, refer to Item 1A of this Form 10-K.
Results of Operations
Summary of Results of Operations for Fiscal Years:
(1)Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers.
n/m - not meaningful
We invest in highly liquid, investment-grade fixed income securities and do not utilize derivative instruments to manage interest rate risk. As of May 31, 2020, we had no exposure to high-risk or non-liquid investments. Details regarding our combined funds held for clients and corporate cash equivalents and investment portfolios are as follows:
(1)The net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios was approximately $112.4 million as of July 15, 2020.
(2)The Federal Funds rate was in the range of 0.0% to 0.25% as of May 31, 2020, in the range of 2.25% to 2.50% as of May 31, 2019, and in the range of 1.50% to 1.75% as of May 31, 2018.
(3)These items exclude the impact of variable rate demand notes (“VRDNs”), as they are tied to short-term interest rates.
Management Solutions revenue: Management Solutions revenue was $3.0 billion for fiscal 2020 and $2.9 billion for fiscal 2019, reflecting growth of 3% and 4%, respectively, compared to the prior fiscal year periods. Both fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 benefited from increases in our client base and growth in revenue per client, which improved as a result of higher price realization and increased penetration of our suite of solutions, particularly HR outsourcing, retirement services, and time and attendance. Retirement services revenue growth for both fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 benefited from an increase in the number of retirement services plans, along with an increase in revenue earned on the asset value of participants’ 401(k) funds.
PEO and Insurance Solutions revenue: PEO and Insurance Solutions revenue was $990.6 million for fiscal 2020 and $814.2 million for fiscal 2019, reflecting growth of 22% and 46%, respectively, compared to the prior fiscal year periods. In addition to the acquisition of Oasis, PEO and Insurance Solutions revenue growth in fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 was driven by growth in clients across our PEO business. In addition, for fiscal 2019, PEO and Insurance Solutions revenue growth was driven by growth in client worksite employees across our PEO business.
Insurance Solutions revenue for both fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 benefited from an increase in the number of health and benefit clients, offset by declining rates in the workers’ compensation market. In addition, for fiscal 2019, Insurance Solutions revenue was impacted by an increase in the number of health and benefit applicants.
Interest on funds held for clients: Interest on funds held for clients increased 8% for fiscal 2020 and 27% for fiscal 2019 to $86.9 million and $80.6 million, respectively. For fiscal 2020 the increase was due to higher realized gains, offset by lower average investment balances and average interest rates. The realized gains primarily resulted from the strategic repositioning of our client fund portfolio to enhance liquidity in response to the uncertainty caused by COVID-19. For fiscal 2019, the increase was primarily due to higher average interest rates earned.
Average investment balances for funds held for clients decreased approximately 1% and 2% for fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, respectively. For fiscal 2020, funds held for clients average investment balances were impacted by lower client fund collections due to COVID-19 and changes in client base mix, offset by wage inflation and timing of collections and remittances. For fiscal 2019, the decrease in average investment balances for funds held for clients was primarily driven by the impact of lower client withholdings as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Tax Act”), and changes in client base mix, partially offset by the impact of wage inflation.
Refer to the “Market Risk Factors” section contained in Item 7A
section_7A: Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
Market Risk Factors
Changes in interest rates and interest rate risk: Funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale securities. Corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale securities. As a result of our investing activities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates that may materially affect our results of operations and financial position. Changes in interest rates will impact the earnings potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in the fair value of our longer-term available-for-sale securities. We follow an investment strategy of protecting principal and optimizing liquidity. A substantial portion of our portfolios is invested in high credit quality securities with ratings of AA or higher, and A-1/P-1 ratings on short-term securities. We invest predominately in municipal bonds - including general obligation bonds and revenue bonds; U.S. government agency and treasury securities; and corporate bonds. We limit the amounts that can be invested in any single issuer and invest primarily in short- to intermediate-term instruments whose fair value is less sensitive to interest rate changes. We manage the available-for-sale securities to a benchmark duration of two and one-half to three and three-quarters years.
During fiscal 2020, our primary short-term investment vehicles were U.S. government agency and treasury securities, VRDNs, and bank demand deposit accounts. We have no exposure to high-risk or non-liquid investments. We have insignificant exposure to European investments. We have not and do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk.
During fiscal 2020, the average interest rate earned on our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios was 1.8%, compared to 1.9% and 1.5% for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively. When interest rates are falling, the full impact of lower interest rates will not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of short- and long-term interest rate changes. During a falling interest rate environment, earnings decrease from our short-term investments, and over time earnings will decrease from our longer-term available-for-sale securities. Earnings from the available-for-sale securities, which as of May 31, 2020 had an average duration of 2.9 years, would not reflect decreases in interest rates until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are reinvested at lower rates.
The amortized cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities that had stated maturities as of May 31, 2020 are shown below by contractual maturity. Expected maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties.
VRDNs are primarily categorized as due after five years in the table above as the contractual maturities on these securities are typically 20 to 30 years. Although these securities are issued as long-term securities, they are priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the tender feature.
The Federal Reserve reduced the Federal Funds rate by 25 basis points three times in the first nine months of fiscal 2020 after periodically raising the rate from December 2015 through May 2019. Then in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Reserve reduced the Federal Funds rate a total of 150 basis points. As of May 31, 2020, the Federal Funds rate was in the range of 0.0% to 0.25% as compared to a range of 2.25% to 2.50% as of May 31, 2019, and in the range of 1.50% to 1.75% as of May 31, 2018. There continues to be uncertainty in the changing market and economic conditions, including the possibility of additional measures that could be taken by the Federal Reserve and other government agencies, related to the COVID-19 pandemic. We will continue to monitor market conditions.
Calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. These factors include, but are not limited to:
governmental action resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic;
daily interest rate changes;
seasonal variations in investment balances;
actual duration of short-term and available-for-sale securities;
the proportion of taxable and tax-exempt investments;
changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous; and
financial market volatility and the resulting effect on benchmark and other indexing interest rates.
Subject to these factors and under normal financial market conditions, a 25-basis-point change in taxable interest rates generally affects our tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. Under normal financial market conditions, the impact to earnings from a 25-basis-point change in short-term interest rates would be approximately $3.0 million to $4.0 million, after taxes, for a twelve-month period. Such a basis point change may or may not be tied to changes in the Federal Funds rate.
Our total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and corporate cash equivalents and investments) averaged approximately $4.8 billion for fiscal 2020. Our anticipated allocation is approximately 40% invested in short-term securities and VRDNs with an average duration of less than 30 days, and 60% invested in available-for-sale securities with an average duration of two and one-half to three and three-quarters years.
The combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale securities reflected net unrealized gains of $100.0 million and $19.7 million as of May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019, respectively. Refer to Note H of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8
section_8: Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
REPORT ON MANAGEMENT’S ASSESSMENT OF
INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
Management of Paychex, Inc. (the “Company”) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2020. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in “Internal Control - Integrated Framework” (2013). Based on our assessment, management determined that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2020.
The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, is appointed by the Company’s Audit Committee. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2020, and as a part of their integrated audit, has issued their report, included herein, on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
/s/ Martin Mucci
Martin Mucci
President and Chief Executive Officer
/s/ Efrain Rivera
Efrain Rivera
Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer
‎
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Paychex, Inc.
Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting