section_1: Item 1. Business
Unless we state otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms “Paychex,” “we,” “us,” “our” and the “Company” refer to Paychex, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Overview
We are a leading provider of integrated human capital management (“HCM”) solutions for human resources (“HR”), payroll, benefits, and insurance services for small- to medium-sized businesses. Our purpose is to allow our customers the freedom to succeed. The workplace is evolving, and we lead the way by making complex HR, payroll, and benefits simple for our clients.
Paychex incorporated in Delaware in 1979 and has a fiscal year that ends May 31st. We maintain our corporate headquarters in Rochester, New York, and serve clients throughout the U.S. and parts of Europe. As of May 31, 2020, we served greater than 680,000 payroll and PEO clients.
For any organization, a key function is the effective management of human capital which requires both resources and expertise. Organizations are faced with complex and ever-changing requirements, including diverse federal, state and local regulations across multiple jurisdictions. In addition, the workplace is rapidly changing as employees increasingly become mobile, work remotely, and expect a user experience similar to consumer-oriented Internet applications. We focus on helping small- to medium-sized businesses who do not have the resources or expertise to adapt to the constantly evolving environment. The COVID-19 environment has further accelerated certain trends and increased regulatory complexity.
Paychex offers a wide range of services - including a fully outsourced HR solution, payroll processing, retirement services, and insurance - allowing us to customize our offering to the client's business, whether it is small or large, simple or complex. We believe that we have the breadth of solutions to cover the spectrum of the employee life cycle, but we also allow integration with some of the most popular HR, accounting, point-of-sale, and productivity applications on the market today.
Our comprehensive solutions allow our clients to manage their workforces effectively from hire to retire. We provide leading-edge HCM technology solutions, coupled with human expertise, to make complex HR, payroll, and benefits issues simple for our clients. The key features of our solutions are:
·Comprehensive cloud-based platform optimized to meet the payroll and HCM needs of small and medium-sized organizations;
·Streamlined workforce management that combines technology with flexible service options;
·Modern, mobile, and intuitive user experience and self-service capabilities that significantly increase employee engagement;
·Scalable and customizable platform that allows clients the ability to add services as they grow;
·Software as a service, or “SaaS”, delivery model that reduces total cost of ownership for our clients; and
·Over 45 years of expertise in HR and payroll with our technology backed by over 200 compliance experts and 600 HR business partners.
We market our solutions through our direct and virtual sales forces which are supported by various corporate lead generation and marketing initiatives. Over 50% of our revenues are gained from our services beyond payroll processing. We focus on providing an industry-leading client experience, and continue to see improving client satisfaction scores and retention.
Company Strategy
Our mission is to be the leading provider of HR, payroll, benefits, and insurance solutions by being an essential partner to small and medium-sized businesses across the U.S. and parts of Europe. We believe that success in this mission will lead to strong, long-term financial performance. We intend to strengthen and extend our position as a leading provider through continued investments in both our technology and service offerings. Key elements of our strategy include:
·Providing industry-leading, integrated technology. We continue to invest significantly in our award-winning Paychex Flex® platform and mobility applications to increase efficiency and functionality for our clients and their employees.
·Increasing client satisfaction. Our flexible service model and technology-enabled service allows us to provide a personalized service experience for our clients and their employees. We continue to invest in artificial intelligence and machine learning and self-service capabilities to allow clients and their employees easy, intuitive, and flexible service how, when, and where they want it.
·Expanding our leadership in HR. We have a comprehensive suite of value-added HR Solutions for our clients and their employees. Greater than half of our revenues are from HR and benefits solutions beyond payroll. After several strategic PEO acquisitions over the past several years, we are now the second largest provider of PEO services in the nation. With over 600 HR business partners, we have extensive expertise that we believe sets us apart in the industry.
·Growing our client base. We believe there is significant potential to grow within our current target markets. We have invested significantly in new demand generation and sales tools and expanding certain areas of our sales force. We continue to focus on sales productivity with the intent of expanding our market share across all our product lines.
·Engaging in strategic acquisitions. In the past, we utilized acquisitions as a mean to expand our portfolio, enter new markets or increase our scale. We continue to evaluate and monitor potential acquisitions and will utilize this when the acquisitions are in alignment with our overall strategy.
Our Solutions
Our solutions bring together payroll and HCM software with flexible, personalized technology-enabled service capabilities. Clients have the option of doing payroll online using our SaaS technology, outsourcing to our payroll specialists or using a combination of those solutions. Payroll is then integrated with HCM software modules for clients who have more complex HR needs. We also provide comprehensive HR outsourcing through our administrative services organization (“ASO”) and PEO solutions. The integration of leading-edge technology and flexible service options allows us to meet our clients’ needs how, when, and where they want.
HCM Technology: Paychex Flex is our proprietary HCM SaaS platform that unites HR, payroll, time and attendance, and benefits processes to maximize efficiency and savings. Paychex Flex helps clients manage the employee life cycle from recruiting and hiring to retirement, providing an integrated suite of solutions including recruiting, onboarding, HR, time and attendance and employee benefits. It utilizes a single cloud-based platform, with single client and employee records. Clients can select the modules they need and easily add on additional services as they grow. In addition, Paychex Flex presents function-focused analytics throughout the platform, assisting HR leaders with making more informed business decisions. Paychex Flex uses a mobile-first design throughout our HCM suite, which allows full functionality of all application components, regardless of device or screen size. We believe our Paychex mobile applications add greater value and convenience for our clients and their employees by allowing them instant access on their mobile device.
We continue to invest in Paychex Flex, making significant enhancements designed to simplify the complexity of HR. The latest enhancements include expansion of our integration capabilities to connect users with some of the world’s leading business tools, a Help Center that gives users access to training and how-to tutorials, a pay-on-demand solution to grant employees access to earned wages before their scheduled pay day, a custom dashboard, and a newly enhanced grid entry view which offers more flexibility, customization, and visibility into employee pay data. We also expanded into wearable technology where Paychex Flex Time users can also use our smartwatch solution, which enables users to track time worked via their smartwatch, making the time and attendance tracking process easier for an increasingly remote workforce.
HR and Compliance Expertise: Paychex supports its HCM software solutions with over 45 years of experience. We have over 600 HR professionals who are dedicated to our clients and have the experience and training to provide HR best practices and advice. Our HR business partners are available to provide our ASO and PEO clients with specific guidance on HR issues. In addition, we have over 200 compliance professionals who are in real-time contact with tax agencies and regulators to understand upcoming or newly enacted laws and regulations, and advocate for our clients’ interests. The contributions of these compliance experts are intended to ensure that our HCM solutions are updated timely to adhere to regulations and to help our clients stay in compliance.
Technology-Enabled Client Service: Paychex Flex also provides technology-enabled service with options that include self-service, a 24/7 dedicated service center, an individual payroll specialist, and integrated service via a multi-product service center. In addition, mid-market clients can utilize a relationship manager for more personalized service. This flexible platform services our small- to medium-sized clients, and a portion of our PEO business.
Within Paychex Flex there is embedded technology to assist clients. The Paychex Flex Intelligence Engine includes the Flex Assistant, a customer service chatbot who can answer over 200 commonly asked questions. Our Flex Intelligence Engine allows clients to elect their preference for learning - via written how-to-documents, tutorial-style video vignettes, or a guided interactive tour. At any time, a live Paychex agent is just a click away, with the entire chat conversation available real-time to provide a better, more personalized service experience.
The platform embeds self-service capabilities that empower client employees to manage their HR and benefits information from any location, on any device. These self-service capabilities allow for greater access and convenience for client employees and greater productivity for clients.
Our Clients
Paychex has HR solutions to fit the needs of any small- to medium-sized business, from do-it-yourself payroll to comprehensive HR outsourcing. The target market for our integrated HCM solutions is small- to medium-sized businesses. Within this space, we serve a diverse base of clients operating in a broad range of industries throughout the U.S. and parts of Europe. The flexibility and scalability of our solutions allow our clients to define the solution that best meets their needs and to grow within the Flex platform. We utilize service agreements and arrangements with clients that generally do not contain specified contract periods, and may be terminated by either party with 30-days’ notice of termination. For the fiscal year ended May 31, 2020 (“fiscal 2020”), client retention was at record levels of over 83% of our beginning client base for the fiscal year.
We support our small-business clients, reducing the complexity and risk of running their own payroll, while ensuring greater accuracy with up-to-date tax rates and regulatory information. We simplify their payroll with a combination of our products and customer service options for a quick and easy payday. Clients may choose to have our service team handle everything for them, or process payroll themselves utilizing our proprietary, robust SaaS Paychex Flex platform and our SurePayroll® SaaS-based products. Both products allow users to process payroll when they want, how they want, and on any device (desktop, tablet, and mobile phone).
Our mid-market clients generally have more complex payroll and employee benefit needs, though with the environment of increasing regulations, we believe the need for HR outsourcing services has been moving down-market. Any of our clients on Paychex Flex can opt for the integrated suite of HCM solutions, which allows clients to choose the services and software that will meet the needs of their business.
While Paychex Flex is our primary SaaS-based platform utilized by the majority of our clients for their HCM needs, there are some clients that use other platforms, including SurePayroll clients, certain PEO clients, and some smaller tenured clients.
Both our small and mid-market clients can choose one of our comprehensive HR outsourcing services, which include ASO and PEO solutions, and participate in our benefits offerings, which include our insurance and retirement services. Our insurance services simplify the insurance process to make it easy to find plans with the features and affordability to meet the client’s needs. Our retirement services product line offers many plan design options to meet the client’s requirements, as well as investment options.
Description of Services