Cash and cash equivalents: Cash and cash equivalents consist of available cash, money market securities, and other investments with a maturity of 90 days or less at acquisition. Cash and cash equivalents include funds collected from the Company’s PEO clients for the payment of worksite employee payrolls and associated payroll taxes. Funds of $136.4 million and $178.8 million collected from PEO clients are included in cash and cash equivalents on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets as of May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019, respectively.
Restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents: Restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents are recorded at fair value, and consist of cash and cash equivalents, primarily money market securities, included in funds held for clients and cash that is restricted in use for certain payment of workers’ compensation policies.
Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts: Accounts receivable balances are shown on the Consolidated Balance Sheets net of the allowance for doubtful accounts of $12.5 million and $7.5 million as of May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019, respectively. These balances include: trade receivables for services provided to clients and purchased receivables related to payroll funding arrangements with clients in the temporary staffing industry. Trade receivables were $84.7 million and $94.5 million as of May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019, respectively. Purchased receivables were $311.9 million and $333.5 million as of May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019, respectively. Accounts receivable are written off and charged against the allowance for doubtful accounts when the Company has exhausted all collection efforts without success. No single client had a material impact on total accounts receivable, service revenue, or results of operations.
PEO unbilled receivables, net of advance collections: The Company recognizes a liability for worksite employee gross wages and related payroll tax liabilities at the end of the period in which the worksite employee performs work, and where it assumes, under state regulations, the obligation for the payment of payroll and payroll tax liabilities. The estimated payroll and payroll tax liabilities are recorded in accrued worksite employee compensation and related items on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The associated unbilled receivables, including estimated revenues, offset by advance collections from clients, are recorded as PEO unbilled receivables, net of advance collections on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019, advance collections included in PEO unbilled receivables, net of advance collections were $6.1 million and $4.2 million, respectively.
Funds held for clients and corporate investments: Marketable securities included in funds held for clients and corporate investments consist primarily of securities classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value obtained from an independent pricing service. The funds held for clients portfolio also includes cash and cash equivalents such as money market securities. Unrealized gains and losses, net of applicable income taxes, are reported as other comprehensive income in the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. Realized gains and losses on the sale of available-for-sale securities are determined by specific identification of the cost basis of each security. On the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income, realized gains and losses from the funds held for clients portfolio and corporate investments portfolio are included in interest on funds held for clients and other (expense)/income, net, respectively.
Concentrations: Substantially all of the Company’s deposited cash is maintained at large well-capitalized (as defined by their regulators) financial institutions. These deposits may exceed the amount of any insurance provided. All of the Company’s deliverable securities, primarily municipal bond securities, are held in custody with certain of the aforementioned financial institutions, for which that institution bears the risk of custodial loss. Non-deliverable securities are primarily time deposits and money market funds.
Property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation: Property and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is based on the estimated useful lives of property and equipment using the straight-line method. The estimated useful lives of depreciable assets are generally as follows:
Normal and recurring repairs and maintenance costs are charged to expense as incurred. The Company reviews the carrying value of property and equipment for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable.
Software development and enhancements: Expenditures for software purchases and software developed for internal use are capitalized and depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives, which are generally three to five years. Software developed as part of the Company’s main processing platform is depreciated over 12 years. For software developed for internal use, certain costs are capitalized, including external direct costs of materials and services associated with developing or obtaining the software, and payroll and payroll-related costs for employees who are directly associated with internal-use software projects. Capitalization of these costs ceases no later than the point at which the project is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. Costs associated with preliminary project stage activities, training, maintenance, and other post-implementation stage activities are expensed as incurred. The carrying value of software and development costs is reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable.
Goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization: The Company had $1.8 billion of goodwill as of both May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019, respectively. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead is tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change in a way to indicate that there has been a potential decline in the fair value of a reporting unit. The Company performs its annual impairment testing in its fiscal fourth quarter. A qualitative analysis was performed for all reporting units in the fiscal years 2020, 2019, and 2018 to determine if it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of the reporting units had declined below their carrying value. The qualitative assessment considered various financial, macroeconomic, industry, and reporting unit specific qualitative factors. Based on the results of the Company’s testing, no impairment loss was recognized in the results of operations for the fiscal years 2020, 2019, or 2018. Subsequent to the latest review, there have been no events or circumstances that indicate any potential impairment of the Company’s goodwill balance.
Intangible assets are comprised primarily of client list acquisitions and are reported net of accumulated amortization on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Intangible assets are amortized over periods generally ranging from three to 12 years. Certain client lists use an accelerated method, while other intangible assets use the straight-line method of amortization. In addition, the Company has intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, which are tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change in a way to indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The Company has determined there is no impairment of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for fiscal 2020, 2019, or 2018.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets: Long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite lives and operating lease right-of-use assets, are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset. The Company has determined that there was no impairment of long-lived assets for the fiscal years 2020, 2019, or 2018.
Foreign Currency: The financial statements of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries have been translated into U.S. dollars. Assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars at period-end exchange rates. Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the reporting period. The resulting non-cash foreign currency translation adjustments, representing unrealized gains or losses, are included in Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax. The Company did not have any material realized gains or losses resulting from foreign exchange transactions during the fiscal years 2020, 2019, or 2018.
Revenue recognition: Revenues are primarily attributable to fees for providing services as well as investment income earned on funds held for clients. Fees associated with services are recognized in the period services are rendered and earned under service arrangements with clients where service fees are fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. The Company’s service revenue is largely attributable to processing services where the fee is based on a fixed amount per processing period or a fixed amount per processing period plus a fee per employee or transaction processed. Insurance Solutions revenues are recognized when commissions are earned on premiums billed and collected. Fees earned for funding of payrolls for temporary staffing agency clients via the purchase of accounts receivable are based on a percentage of funding amounts as specified in the client contract. These fees are then recognized over the average collection period of 35 to 45 days. The revenue earned from delivery service for the distribution of certain client payroll checks and reports is included in service revenue, and the costs for the delivery are included in cost of service revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income.
The Company receives advance payments for set-up fees from its clients. Advance payments received for certain of the Company’s service offerings for set-up fees are considered a material right. Therefore, the Company defers the revenue associated with these advance payments, recognizing the revenue and related expenses over the expected period to which the material right exists.
PEO Solutions revenue is included in service revenue and is reported net of certain pass-through costs billed and incurred, which include payroll wages, payroll taxes, including federal and state unemployment insurance, and certain health insurance benefit premiums, primarily costs related to the Company’s guaranteed cost benefit plans. Direct costs related to workers’ compensation and certain benefit plans where the Company retains risk are recognized as cost of service revenue rather than as a reduction in service revenue. Refer to Note B of this Item 8 for further discussion of the PEO pass-through costs.
Interest on funds held for clients is earned primarily on funds that are collected from clients before due dates for payroll tax administration services and for employee payment services and invested until remittance to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies or client employees. The interest earned on these funds is included in total revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income because the collecting, holding, and remitting of these funds are components of providing these services.