A substantial portion of our portfolios are invested in high credit quality securities with ratings of AA or higher, and A-1/P-1 ratings on short-term securities.
The classification of funds held for clients and corporate investments on the Consolidated Balance Sheets is as follows:
Funds held for clients’ money market securities and other cash equivalents is collected from clients before due dates for payroll tax administration services and employee payment services and is invested until remitted to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies or client employees. Based upon the Company’s intent and its contractual obligation to clients, these funds are considered restricted until they are remitted to fund these client obligations.
The Company’s available-for-sale securities reflected net unrealized gains of $100.0 million and $19.7 million as of May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019, respectively. Included in net unrealized gains as of May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019 were 19 and 269 available-for-sale securities in an unrealized loss position, representing approximately 2% and 28% of the total securities held, respectively. The available-for-sale securities in an unrealized loss position were as follows:
The Company regularly reviews its investment portfolios to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns. The Company believes that the investments held as of May 31, 2020 that had gross unrealized losses of $1.7 million were not other-than-temporarily impaired. The Company believes that it is probable that the principal and interest will be collected in accordance with contractual terms, and that the unrealized losses on these securities were due to changes in interest rates and were not due to increased credit risk or other valuation concerns. Most of the securities in an unrealized loss position as of May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019 held an AA rating or better. The Company does not intend to sell these investments until the recovery of their amortized cost basis or maturity, and further believes that it is not more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell these investments prior to that time. The Company’s assessment that an investment is not other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments, including developments related to COVID-19, or changes in the Company’s strategies or assumptions related to any particular investment.
Realized gains and losses from the sale of available-for-sale securities were as follows:
The amortized cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities that had stated maturities as of May 31, 2020 are shown below by contractual maturity. Expected maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties.
Variable rate demand notes (“VRDNs”) are primarily categorized as due after five years in the table above as the contractual maturities on these securities are typically 20 to 30 years. Although these securities are issued as long-term securities, they are priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the tender feature.
Note H - Fair Value Measurements
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The accounting standards related to fair value measurements include a hierarchy for information and valuations used in measuring fair value that is broken down into three levels based on reliability, as follows:
Level 1 valuations are based on quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments that the Company can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 valuations are based on inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the instrument, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability including the following:
quoted prices for similar, but not identical, instruments in active markets;
quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active;
inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the instrument; or
inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means.
Level 3 valuations are based on information that is unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement.
The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents, accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, accounts payable and short-term borrowings, when used by the Company, approximate fair value due to the short maturities of these instruments. Marketable securities included in funds held for clients and corporate investments consist primarily of securities classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis.
The Company’s financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows:
In determining the fair value of its assets and liabilities, the Company predominately uses the market approach. Money market securities, which are cash equivalents, are considered Level 1 investments as they are valued based on quoted market prices in active markets. Cash equivalents also include commercial paper which is considered a Level 2 investment as it is valued based on similar, but not identical, instruments in active markets. Available-for-sale securities, including asset-backed securities, corporate bonds, municipal bonds, U.S. government agency and treasury securities, and VRDNs, are included in Level 2 and are valued utilizing inputs obtained from an independent pricing service. To determine the fair value of the Company’s Level 2 available-for-sale securities, the independent pricing service uses a variety of inputs, including benchmark yields, reported trades, non-binding broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two-sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, reference data, new issue data, and monthly payment information. The Company has not adjusted the prices obtained from the independent pricing service because it believes that they are appropriately valued.
Assets included as other are mutual fund investments, consisting of participants’ eligible deferral contributions under the Company’s non-qualified and unfunded deferred compensation plans. The related liability is reported as other long-term liabilities. The mutual funds are considered Level 1 investments as they are valued based on quoted market prices in active markets.
The Company’s long-term borrowings are accounted for under historical cost. As of May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019, the fair value of long-term borrowings, net of debt issuance costs was $441.9 million and $416.6 million for the Senior Notes, Series A, respectively, and $448.7 million and $418.3 million for the Senior Notes, Series B, respectively.
The Company’s long-term borrowings are not traded in active markets and as a result its fair values were estimated using a market approach employing Level 2 valuation inputs, including borrowing rates the Company believes are currently available based on loans with similar terms and maturities.
The preceding methods described may produce a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values. Furthermore, although the Company believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different fair value measurement at the reporting date.
Note I: Leases
The Company’s lease portfolio consists primarily of operating leases for office space and equipment and has remaining terms from less than one year up to ten years, with contractual terms expiring from 2020 to 2030. Lease contracts may include one or more renewal options that allow the Company to extend the lease term, typically from one year to five years per each renewal option. The exercise of lease options is generally at the discretion of the Company. None of the Company’s leases contain residual value guarantees, substantial restrictions, or covenants.
Supplemental balance sheet information related to the Company’s leases were as follows:
(1) The current portion of operating lease liabilities is reported in the other current liabilities line item on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The components of lease expense were as follows:
Fixed payment lease expense was $38.2 million, $42.9 million, and $39.9 million for fiscal years 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
Supplemental cash flow information related to the Company’s leases were as follows:
Lease incentives received in the form of tenant allowances and free rent was $6.1 million, $3.5 million, and $7.7 million for fiscal years 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
Future lease payments are as follows:
(1)Presented in accordance with legacy GAAP, ASC Topic 840, Leases.
As of May 31, 2020, the Company has entered into two lease agreements that have not yet commenced for terms up to ten years. These leases will require lease payments over their terms of approximately $6.8 million.
Note J - Property and Equipment, Net of Accumulated Depreciation
The components of property and equipment, at cost, consisted of the following:
(1)Software includes both purchased software and costs capitalized related to internally developed software placed in service. Capitalized costs related to internally developed software that has not yet been placed in service is included in construction in progress.
Depreciation expense was $127.8 million, $125.7 million, and $116.9 million for fiscal years 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
Note K - Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net of Accumulated Amortization
Goodwill and changes in goodwill as of and for the years ended May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019 were as follows:
Goodwill acquired in fiscal 2019 related to the December 2018 acquisition of Oasis. Refer to Note D of this Item 8 for further details.
The Company had certain intangible assets on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The components of intangible assets, at cost, consisted of the following:
During fiscal 2020, the Company acquired customer lists with a weighted-average amortization of 7.7 years. Amortization expense relating to intangible assets was $81.9 million, $55.8 million, and $21.1 million for fiscal years 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
The Company did not recognize an impairment loss as it relates to its goodwill or intangible assets during the fiscal years 2020, 2019, or 2018.
The estimated amortization expense for the next five fiscal years relating to intangible asset balances is as follows:
Note L - Income Taxes
The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
The deferred tax asset related to NOL carry forward is comprised of $4.4 million of federal NOL carry forwards and $5.3 million of state NOL carry forwards. The federal NOL carry forwards were acquired through various acquisitions and expire between the fiscal years ending May 31, 2022 and May 31, 2037. The state NOL carry forwards expire between the fiscal years ending May 31, 2021 through May 31, 2039.
The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:
A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate to the Company’s effective income tax rate is as follows:
The effective income tax rates in all periods were impacted by recognition of net discrete tax benefits related to employee stock-based compensation payments. In fiscal 2019, the effective income tax rate included discrete tax expense for changes in tax reserves and the revaluation of deferred tax balances for legislative updates. In fiscal 2018, as a result of the Tax Act, we recorded a non-recurring net tax benefit for the revaluation of our net deferred tax liabilities.
The Tax Act made broad and complex changes to U.S. federal corporate income taxation including, but not limited to: (i) reducing the statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% (a blended statutory tax rate of 29.2% for fiscal 2018); (ii) repeal of the Section 199 qualified production activities deduction; (iii) creating new or furthering limitations to the deductibility of certain officer compensation, interest, meals, entertainment and other expenses; and (iv) changing from a worldwide to a territorial taxation system. As of May 31, 2019, the Company’s accounting for the impact of the Tax Act was completed.