Other recent authoritative guidance issued by the FASB (including technical corrections to the FASB ASC), the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and the SEC did not, or are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
Note B - Service Revenue
Service revenue is primarily attributable to fees for providing services to the Company’s clients and is recognized when control of the promised services is transferred to its clients, in an amount that reflects the consideration it expects to receive in exchange for such services. The Company’s service revenue is largely attributable to processing services where the fee is based on a fixed amount per processing period or a fixed amount per processing period plus a fee per employee or transaction processed. Insurance Solutions revenue is recognized when commissions are earned on premiums billed and collected. The Company’s contracts generally do not contain specified contract periods and may be terminated by either party with 30-days’ notice of termination. Sales and other applicable non-payroll related taxes are excluded from service revenue.
Based upon similar operational and economic characteristics, the Company’s service revenue is disaggregated by Management Solutions and PEO and Insurance Solutions as reported in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. The Company believes these revenue categories depict how the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of its revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors.
Management Solutions Revenue
Management Solutions revenue is primarily derived from the Company’s payroll processing, payroll-related ancillary services, and HR outsourcing solutions. Clients can select services on an á la carte basis or as part of various product bundles. The Company’s offerings often leverage the information gathered in its base payroll processing service, allowing it to provide comprehensive outsourcing services covering the HCM spectrum. Management Solutions revenue is generally recognized over time as services are performed and the customer simultaneously receives and controls the benefits from these services.
Revenue earned from delivery service for the distribution of certain client payroll checks and reports is also included in Management Solutions revenue in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. Delivery service revenue is recognized at a point in time following the delivery of payroll checks, reports, quarter-end packages, and tax returns to the Company’s clients.
PEO and Insurance Solutions Revenue
PEO solutions are sold through the Company’s registered and licensed subsidiaries, Paychex Business Solutions, LLC, Oasis Outsourcing Group Holdings, L.P. (“Oasis”), and HR Outsourcing Holdings, Inc. (“HROi”), and offer businesses a combined package of services that includes payroll, employer compliance, HR and employee benefits administration, risk management outsourcing, and the on-site availability of a professionally trained HR representative, among other services. The Company serves as a co-employer of its clients’ employees, offers health insurance coverage to client employees, and assumes the risks and rewards of workers’ compensation insurance and certain health insurance benefit offerings. PEO Solutions revenue is recognized over time as the services are performed and the customer simultaneously receives and controls the benefits from these services. PEO Solutions revenue is reported net of certain pass-through costs billed and incurred, which include payroll wages, payroll taxes, including federal and state unemployment insurance, and certain health insurance benefit premiums, primarily costs related to the Company’s guaranteed cost benefit plans. For guaranteed cost benefit plans where the Company does not retain risk, revenues are recorded net of the premiums paid to the insurance carrier. For workers’ compensation and certain benefit plans where the Company retains risk, revenues and costs are recorded on a gross basis.
PEO pass-through costs netted within the PEO and Insurance Solutions revenue are as follows:
Insurance solutions are sold through the Company’s licensed insurance agency, Paychex Insurance Agency, Inc., which provides insurance through a variety of carriers, allowing companies to expand their employee benefit offerings at an affordable cost. Insurance offerings include property and casualty coverage such as workers’ compensation, business-owner policies, and commercial auto, and health and benefits coverage, including health, dental, vision, and life. Insurance Solutions revenue reflects commissions earned on insurance services premiums billed and is recognized over time as services are performed and the customer simultaneously receives and controls the benefits from these services.
Contract Balances
The timing of revenue recognition for Management Solutions and PEO and Insurance Solutions is consistent with the invoicing of clients as they both occur during the respective client payroll period for which the services are provided. Therefore, the Company does not recognize a contract asset or liability resulting from the timing of revenue recognition and invoicing.
Payments received for certain of the Company’s service offerings for set-up fees are considered a material right. Therefore, the Company defers revenue associated with these performance obligations, which exceed one year, and subsequently recognizes these as future services are provided, over approximately three years to four years.
Changes in deferred revenue related to a material right that exceed one year were as follows:
Deferred revenue related to a material right is reported in the deferred revenue and other long-term liabilities line items on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company expects to recognize $21.6 million of deferred revenue related to a material right during its fiscal year ending May 31, 2021 and $21.0 million of such deferred revenue thereafter.
Assets Recognized from the Costs to Obtain and Fulfill Contracts
The Company recognizes an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a client if it is expected that the economic benefit and amortization period will be longer than one year. The Company also recognizes an asset for the costs to fulfill a contract with a client if the costs are specifically identifiable, generate or enhance resources used to satisfy future performance obligations, and are expected to be recovered. Deferred costs to obtain and fulfill contracts are reported in the prepaid expenses and other current assets and long-term deferred costs line items on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Amortization expense related to costs to obtain and fulfill a contract are included in cost of service revenue and selling, general and administrative expenses in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. Refer to the Note A of this Item 8 for additional disclosures on our policies for assets recognized from the costs to obtain and fulfill contracts.
The Company regularly reviews its deferred costs for potential impairment and did not recognize an impairment loss during the fiscal years ended May 31, 2020 or May 31, 2019.
Changes in deferred costs to obtain and fulfill contracts were as follows:
Note C - Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share
Basic and diluted earnings per share were calculated as follows:
Weighted-average common share equivalents that had an anti-dilutive impact are excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share.
In May 2019, the Company announced that its Board approved a program to repurchase up to $400.0 million of its common stock, with authorization expiring on May 31, 2022. During fiscal 2020, the Company repurchased 2.0 million shares for $171.9 million under this repurchase program. During fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, the Company repurchased 0.7 million shares for $56.9 million and 2.5 million shares for $143.1 million, respectively, under a previously authorized repurchase program. The purpose of these programs is to manage common stock dilution. All shares of common stock repurchased were retired.
Note D - Business Combinations
Effective December 20, 2018, the Company acquired Oasis. Upon closing, Oasis became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Oasis is an industry leader in providing HR outsourcing services. The purchase price was $992.2 million, net of $262.3 million in cash acquired, including $132.1 million of restricted cash. The acquisition was financed through a combination of cash on hand and the issuance of long-term private placement debt totaling $800.0 million.
The results of operations for Oasis have been included in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income since the date of acquisition. During fiscal 2019, Oasis contributed $163.7 million of total revenues and $5.1 million of operating income, including the impact of certain one-time charges related to the acquisition and integration of the Oasis business, in the Company’s consolidated results of operations. The Company incurred $5.3 million of acquisition and integration costs associated with Oasis during fiscal 2019, which was included within selling, general and administrative expenses in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income.
The Company accounted for the acquisition as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with the FASB ASC Topic 805, “Business Combinations.” The acquired assets and liabilities of Oasis were recorded at their acquisition-date fair values and were consolidated with those of the Company as of the acquisition date. The purchase accounting was finalized during fiscal 2020.
The following acquisition-date fair values were assigned to the acquired net assets (amounts in millions):
The Company assigned $310.9 million to amortizable intangible assets, including customer lists, trade names and trademarks, and non-compete agreements, with a weighted-average amortization period of approximately 10 years. Goodwill in the amount of $976.6 million was recorded as a result of the acquisition, which is not tax-deductible. Goodwill is attributable to the future economic benefits the Company expects to achieve and expected synergies to be realized when combining the operations of this acquisition into our existing operations.
Pro Forma Financial Results (Unaudited): The following table summarizes the Company’s unaudited pro forma operating results for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 as if the acquisition of Oasis had been consummated as of June 1, 2017. The following pro forma information does not include the impact of any costs incurred to integrate Oasis’ operations:
The unaudited pro forma operating results have been calculated after applying the Company’s accounting policies and include the acquisition of Oasis adjusted, net of tax, for depreciation and amortization expense resulting from the determination of fair values of the acquired property and equipment and amortizable intangible assets, the inclusion of interest expense related to borrowings used to fund the acquisition, the amortization of debt issuance costs related to the permanent financing of debt, the elimination of interest income related to available cash used for the acquisition, and the elimination of Oasis’ interest expense related to debt not assumed in the acquisition. In addition, the net income above for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2018 includes a non-recurring one-time net tax benefit for the revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”). Since the pro forma financial results assume the acquisition was consummated on June 1, 2017, the unaudited pro forma operating results for fiscal 2019 excluded $2.7 million ($2.0 million, net of tax) of costs incurred by the Company related to the acquisition of Oasis. The unaudited pro forma operating results for fiscal 2018 included $2.7 million ($1.7 million, net of tax) of costs incurred by the Company related to the acquisition of Oasis.
Oasis’ fiscal year end was the Sunday closest to the calendar year end. Since Oasis and the Company had different fiscal year end dates, the unaudited pro forma operating results were prepared based on comparable periods.
The pro forma financial information does not purport to be indicative of the results that would have been obtained had the transactions been completed as of June 1, 2017 for the periods presented and are not intended to be a projection of future results or trends.
Effective February 28, 2018, the Company acquired Lessor Group (“Lessor”). Upon closing, Lessor became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Lessor is a market-leading provider of payroll and HCM software solutions headquartered in Denmark and serving clients in Northern Europe. The purchase price was $162.5 million, net of $13.4 million in cash acquired. Goodwill in the amount of $112.3 million was recorded as a result of the acquisition, which is not tax-deductible.