Assets Recognized from the Costs to Obtain and Fulfill Contracts: The Company recognizes an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a client if it is expected that the economic benefit and amortization period will be longer than one year. Incremental costs of obtaining a contract include only those costs that are directly related to the acquisition of new contracts and that would not have been incurred if the contract had not been obtained. The Company does not incur incremental costs to obtain a contract renewal. The Company determined that certain sales commissions and bonuses, including related fringe benefits, meet the capitalization criteria under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Subtopic 340-40, “Other Assets and Deferred Costs: Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 340-40”). The Company also recognizes an asset for the costs to fulfill a contract with a client if the costs are specifically identifiable, generate or enhance resources used to satisfy future performance obligations, and are expected to be recovered. The Company determined that substantially all costs related to implementation activities are administrative in nature and meet the capitalization criteria under ASC 340-40. These capitalized costs to fulfill a contract principally relate to upfront direct costs that are expected to be recovered and enhance the Company’s ability to satisfy future performance obligations.
The assets related to both costs to obtain and costs to fulfill contracts with clients are capitalized and amortized using an accelerated method over an eight-year life to closely align with the pattern of client attrition over the estimated life of the client relationship. The Company regularly reviews its deferred costs for potential impairment and did not recognize an impairment loss during the fiscal years ended May 31, 2020 or May 31, 2019.
Cost of service revenue: The Company’s costs and expenses applicable to total service revenue represent direct costs associated with providing HR, payroll, benefits, and insurance services. This includes labor-related costs, direct costs related to certain PEO offerings, postage and delivery costs, facility costs, professional services, and depreciation and amortization of property and equipment, including internally developed software.
Selling, general and administrative expenses: The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses represent labor-related costs, including amortization of deferred sales commissions and bonuses, corporate asset depreciation and amortization, marketing, and other general and administrative expenses incurred by the Company.
PEO insurance reserves: As part of the PEO solution, the Company offers workers’ compensation insurance and health insurance to clients for the benefit of client employees. Workers’ compensation insurance is primarily provided under fully insured high deductible workers’ compensation insurance policies. Workers’ compensation insurance reserves are established to provide for the estimated costs of paying claims up to per occurrence liability limits. These reserves include estimates of certain expenses associated with processing and settling these claims. In establishing the PEO workers’ compensation insurance reserves, the Company uses an independent actuarial estimate of undiscounted future cash payments that would be made to settle claims. The evaluation, review and determination of estimated ultimate losses by the Company’s appointed actuary are based on actuarial methods and assumptions. The estimated ultimate losses are primarily based upon estimated loss development factors, and other factors such as the nature of employees’ job responsibilities, the historical frequency and severity of workers’ compensation claims, and an estimate of future cost trends. Each reporting period, changes in actuarial assumptions resulting from changes in actual claims experience and other trends are incorporated into our workers’ compensation claims cost estimates.
The Company’s maximum individual claims liability under its PEO workers’ compensation insurance policies was $1.0 million for fiscal 2020. For fiscal 2019, the Company’s maximum individual claims liability ranged from $0.5 million to $1.0 million under its PEO workers’ compensation insurance policies. As of May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019, the Company had recorded current liabilities of $72.3 million and $71.1 million, respectively, and long-term liabilities of $101.3 million and $99.2 million, respectively, on its Consolidated Balance Sheets for workers’ compensation insurance reserves.
With respect to PEO health insurance, the Company offers various health insurance plans that take the form of either fully insured guaranteed cost plans with various national insurance carriers or a fully insured minimum premium insurance arrangement with coverage provided through a single national carrier. In addition, the Company also provides self-insured dental and vision plans to certain of its PEO clients. Under the minimum medical premium insurance arrangement and self-insured dental and vision plans, the Company’s health benefits insurance reserves are established to provide for the payment of claims in accordance with its service contract with the carrier. The claims liability includes estimates for reported losses, plus amounts for those claims incurred but not reported, and estimates of certain expenses associated with processing and settling the claims. The Company’s maximum individual claims liability was $0.3 million under its policies during both fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019. Amounts accrued related to the health insurance and dental and vision plan reserves were $36.7 million and $25.4 million as of May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019, respectively. These amounts are included in current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Estimating the ultimate cost of future claims is an uncertain and complex process based upon historical loss experience and independent actuarial loss projections, and is subject to change due to multiple factors, including economic trends, changes in legal liability law, and damage awards, all of which could materially impact the reserves as reported in the consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, final claim settlements may vary from the present estimates, particularly with workers’ compensation insurance where those payments may not occur until well into the future. The Company regularly reviews the adequacy of its estimated insurance reserves. Adjustments to previously established reserves are reflected in the results of operations for the period in which the adjustment is identified. Such adjustments could be significant, reflecting any combination of new and adverse or favorable trends. Adjustments to previously established reserves were not material for the fiscal years 2020, 2019, or 2018.
Leases: At contract inception, the Company determines if the new contractual arrangement is a lease or contains a leasing arrangement. If a contract contains a lease, the Company evaluates whether it should be classified as an operating or a finance lease. Currently, all of the Company’s leases have been classified as operating leases. Upon modification of the contract, the Company will reassess to determine if a contract is or contains a leasing arrangement.
The Company records lease liabilities based on the future estimated cash payments discounted over the lease term, defined as the non-cancellable time period of the lease, together with all the following:
periods covered by an option to extend the lease if the Company is reasonably certain to exercise the extension option; and
periods covered by an option to terminate the lease if the Company is reasonably certain not to exercise the termination option.
Leases may also include options to terminate the arrangement or options to purchase the underlying lease property. The Company does not separate lease and non-lease components of contracts. Lease components provide the Company with the right to use an identified asset, which consist of the Company’s real estate properties and office equipment. Non-lease components consist primarily of maintenance services.
As an implicit discount rate is not readily determinable in the Company’s lease agreements, the Company uses its estimated secured incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of future lease payments. The incremental borrowing rate is determined using a portfolio approach utilizing publicly available information related to our unsecured borrowing rates. For certain leases with original terms of 12 months or less, the Company recognizes lease expense as incurred and does not recognize any lease liabilities. Short-term and long-term portions of operating lease liabilities are classified as other current liabilities and operating lease liabilities, respectively, in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.
A right-of-use (“ROU”) asset is measured as the amount of the lease liability with adjustments, if applicable, for lease incentives, initial direct costs incurred by the Company, and lease prepayments made prior to or at lease commencement. ROU assets are classified as operating lease right-of-use assets, net of accumulated amortization, on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company evaluates the carrying value of ROU assets if there are indicators of potential impairment, and performs the analysis concurrent with the review of the recoverability of the related asset group. If the carrying value of the asset group is determined to not be fully recoverable and is in excess of its estimated fair value, the Company will record an impairment loss in its Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. The Company did not recognize an impairment loss during fiscal 2020.
Fixed lease expense payments are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Variable lease payments vary because of changes in facts or circumstances occurring after the commencement date, other than the passage of time, and are often due to changes in an external market rate or the value of an index (e.g. Consumer Price Index). Variable lease payments are expensed as incurred in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income.
Stock-based compensation costs: All stock-based awards to employees are recognized as compensation costs in the consolidated financial statements based on their fair values measured as of the date of grant. The Company estimates the fair value of stock option grants using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. This model requires various assumptions as inputs including expected volatility of the Paychex stock price and expected option life. Volatility is estimated based on a combination of historical volatility, using stock prices over a period equal to the expected option life, and implied market volatility. Expected option life is estimated based on historical exercise behavior. The Company periodically reassesses its assumptions as well as its choice of valuation model. The Company will reconsider use of this model if additional information becomes available in the future indicating that another model would provide a more accurate estimate of fair value, or if characteristics of future grants would warrant such a change.
The fair value of stock awards is determined based on the stock price at the date of grant. For grants that do not accrue dividends or dividend equivalents, the fair value is the stock price reduced by the present value of estimated dividends over the vesting period or performance period.
The Company’s policy is to estimate forfeitures and only record compensation costs for those awards that are expected to vest. The assumptions for forfeitures are determined based on type of award and historical experience. Forfeiture assumptions are adjusted at the point in time a significant change is identified, with any adjustment recorded in the period of change, and the final adjustment at the end of the requisite service period to equal actual forfeitures.
The assumptions of volatility, expected option life, and forfeitures all require significant judgment and are subject to change in the future due to factors such as employee exercise behavior, stock price trends, and changes to type or provisions of stock-based awards. Any material change in one or more of these assumptions could have an impact on the estimated fair value of a future award.
Refer to Note F of this Item 8 for further discussion of the Company’s stock-based compensation plans.
Income taxes: The Company accounts for deferred taxes by recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities, using enacted tax rates in effect for the fiscal year in which the differences are expected to reverse.