We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Paychex, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of May 31, 2020 and 2019, and the related consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, of stockholders’ equity, and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 2020, including the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of May 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 2020 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.
Change in Accounting Principle
As discussed in Note A to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for leases on June 1, 2019.
Basis for Opinions
The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report on Management’s Assessment of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.
Professional Employer Organization (PEO) Insurance Reserves - Workers’ Compensation Insurance Reserves
As described in Note A to the consolidated financial statements, the Company offers workers’ compensation insurance to clients for the benefit of client employees. Workers’ compensation insurance is primarily provided under fully insured high deductible workers’ compensation insurance policies. Workers’ compensation insurance reserves are established to provide for the estimated costs of paying claims up to per occurrence liability limits. As of May 31, 2020, the total liability for workers’ compensation insurance reserves is $173.6 million. In establishing the workers' compensation insurance reserves, management uses an independent actuarial estimate of undiscounted future cash payments that would be made to settle the claims. The evaluation, review and determination of estimated ultimate losses by the Company’s appointed actuary are based on actuarial methods and assumptions. The estimated ultimate losses are primarily based upon estimated loss development factors, and other factors such as the nature of employees’ job responsibilities, the historical frequency and severity of workers’ compensation claims, and an estimate of future cost trends.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to PEO insurance reserves - workers’ compensation insurance reserves is a critical audit matter are (i) the significant judgment by management in determining the workers’ compensation insurance reserves, which in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in performing our procedures and evaluating management’s assumptions and actuarial estimates related to the estimated loss development factors and other factors such as the historical frequency and severity of workers’ compensation claims and an estimate of future cost trends, and (ii) the audit effort included the involvement of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating to the Company’s workers’ compensation insurance reserves, including controls over the development of management’s assumptions and actuarial estimates related to the estimated loss development factors. These procedures also included, among others (i) the involvement of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge to assist in developing an independent estimate of the workers’ compensation insurance reserves and (ii) comparison of this independent estimate to management’s estimate to evaluate the reasonableness of management’s estimate. Developing an independent estimate involved (i) testing the completeness and accuracy of data provided by management and (ii) evaluating management’s assumptions and actuarial estimates related to the estimated loss development factors and other factors such as the historical frequency and severity of workers’ compensation claims and an estimate of future cost trends.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Rochester, New York
July 17, 2020
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2013.
PAYCHEX, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
In millions, except per share amounts
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
PAYCHEX, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
In millions, except per share amounts
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
PAYCHEX, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
In millions
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
PAYCHEX, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
In millions
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
PAYCHEX, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note A - Description of Business, Basis of Presentation, and Significant Accounting Policies
Description of business: Paychex, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company” or “Paychex”) is a leading provider of integrated human capital management (“HCM”) solutions for human resources (“HR”), payroll, benefits, and insurance services for small- to medium-sized businesses in the United States (“U.S.”). The Company also has operations in parts of Europe.
Paychex, a Delaware corporation formed in 1979, reports as one segment. Substantially all of the Company’s revenue is generated within the U.S. The Company also generates revenue within parts of Europe, which represented one percent of the Company’s total revenue for each of the fiscal years ended May 31, 2020 (“fiscal 2020”) and May 31, 2019 (“fiscal 2019”), and less than one percent for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2018 (“fiscal 2018”). Long-lived assets in Europe were approximately five percent of total long-lived assets of the Company as of both May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019, respectively.
Within Paychex’s HCM solutions, Paychex offers a comprehensive portfolio of services and products that allow its clients to meet their diverse HR and payroll needs. Clients can select services on an á la carte basis or as part of various product bundles. Paychex’s offerings often leverage the information gathered in its base payroll processing service, allowing the Company to provide comprehensive outsourcing services covering the HCM spectrum.
Paychex supports its small business clients utilizing its proprietary, robust, software-as-a-service (“SaaS”) Paychex Flex® platform and the Company’s SurePayroll® SaaS-based products. Both products allow users to process payroll when they want, how they want, and on any device (desktop, tablet, and mobile phone). Paychex’s mid-market clients generally have more complex payroll and employee benefit needs. However, in the current environment of increasing regulations, the Company believes the needs for HR outsourcing solutions have been moving down-market. Any of the Company’s clients on Paychex Flex can opt for the integrated suite of HCM solutions, which allows clients to choose the services and software that will meet the needs of their business.
Total revenue is comprised of service revenue and interest on funds held for clients. Service revenue is comprised primarily of the fees earned on the portfolio of HCM services, which include payroll processing, complementary HR management and administration services, PEO (“Professional Employer Organization”) solutions, and insurance agency commissions. Refer to Note B of this Item 8 for further discussion of the Company’s service revenue.
Basis of presentation: The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Paychex, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain disclosures are reported as zero balances due to rounding.
Effective June 1, 2019, the Company adopted the requirements of ASU No. 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842)” (“ASU No. 2016-02”) as discussed in the “Recently adopted accounting pronouncements” section of this Item 8. All amounts and disclosures set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (the “Form 10-K”) have been updated to comply with the new standard.
Reclassifications: Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on reported consolidated earnings.
Subsequent Events: On July 9, 2020, Paychex announced that its Board of Directors (the “Board”) declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.62 per share payable August 27, 2020 to stockholders of record as of August 3, 2020.