The Company also maintains a reserve for uncertain tax positions. The Company evaluates tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return for recognition in its consolidated financial statements. Prior to recording the related tax benefit in the consolidated financial statements, the Company must conclude that tax positions will be more-likely-than-not to be sustained, assuming those positions will be examined by taxing authorities with full knowledge of all relevant information. The benefit recognized in the consolidated financial statements is the amount the Company expects to realize after examination by taxing authorities. If a tax position drops below the more-likely-than-not standard, the benefit can no longer be recognized. Assumptions, judgment, and the use of estimates are required in determining if the more-likely-than-not standard has been met when developing the provision for income taxes and in determining the expected benefit. A change in the assessment of the more-likely-than-not standard could materially impact the Company’s results of operations or financial position. The Company’s reserve for uncertain tax positions, including interest and net of federal benefits, was $26.5 million as of May 31, 2020 and $21.6 million as of May 31, 2019. Refer to Note L of this Item 8 for further discussion of the Company’s reserve for uncertain tax positions.
Use of estimates: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses during the reporting period. Actual amounts and results could differ from these estimates.
Recently adopted accounting pronouncements: In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No. 2016-02. This guidance, as amended by subsequent ASUs on the topic, improves transparency and comparability among companies by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and by disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. The Company adopted the requirements of ASU No. 2016-02 on June 1, 2019, utilizing the alternative transition method provided by the FASB in ASU No. 2018-11, “Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements,” and did not restate comparative periods as permitted under the standard.
The adoption of ASU No. 2016-02 increased ROU lease-related assets and liabilities by $116.4 million and resulted in ROU asset and lease liability balances of $116.4 million and $135.3 million, respectively, on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 1, 2019. The difference between the ROU assets and lease liabilities relates to $18.9 million of unamortized landlord allowances and lease incentives. The Company has updated its control framework for new internal controls and made changes to existing internal controls related to the new standard. The adoption of this standard did not have an impact on the financial covenants set forth in the Company’s credit facilities and long-term borrowing agreement. Refer to Note I of this Item 8 for additional information on the new standard.
As part of the adoption of ASU No. 2016-02, the Company elected the following practical expedients: 1) lease vs. non-lease components relating to the real estate asset class; 2) the short-term lease exemption; and 3) the package of practical expedients, which permits the Company to not reassess prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification, and initial direct costs under the new standard. In addition, the Company elected not to adopt the practical expedient related to hindsight.
In June 2019, the Company also adopted the following ASUs, none of which had a material impact on its consolidated financial statements:
ASU No. 2018-07, “Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting;”
ASU No. 2018-02, “Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income;” and
ASU No. 2017-08, “Receivables - Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs (Subtopic 310-20): Premium Amortization on Purchased Callable Debt Securities.”
Recently issued accounting pronouncements: In March 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-04, “Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting.” ASU No. 2020-04 provides guidance on optional expedients for a limited time to ease the operational burden in accounting for (or recognizing the effects of) reference rate reform (LIBOR) on financial reporting. This guidance is effective upon the ASUs issuance on March 12, 2020 and companies may elect to apply the amendments prospectively through December 31, 2022. The Company’s credit facilities already contain comparable alternative reference rates that would automatically take effect upon the LIBOR phase out, and it is also reviewing its commercial contracts that may utilize LIBOR as a reference rate. The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-12 “Income Taxes (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes.” ASU No. 2019-12 is intended to simplify various aspects related to accounting for income taxes, eliminates certain exceptions to the general principles in ASC Topic 740 related to intra-period tax allocation, simplifies when companies recognize deferred taxes in an interim period, and clarifies certain aspects of the current guidance to promote consistent application. This guidance is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. This guidance is applicable to the Company’s fiscal year beginning June 1, 2021. The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
In November 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-08 “Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718) and Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Codification Improvements - Share-Based Consideration Payable to a Customer.” ASU No. 2019-08 amends and clarifies ASU No. 2018-07, which was adopted by the Company on June 1, 2019, to require that an entity measure and classify share-based payment awards granted to a customer by applying the guidance in Topic 718. For entities that have already adopted the amendments in ASU No. 2018-07, the amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. This guidance is applicable to the Company’s fiscal year beginning June 1, 2020. The adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
In April 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-04 “Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instruments.” ASU No. 2019-04 was issued as part of the FASB’s ongoing project to improve upon its ASC, and to clarify and improve areas of guidance related to recently issued standards on credit losses, hedging, and recognition and measurement. This guidance contains several effective dates but is applicable to the Company’s fiscal year beginning June 1, 2020. The adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
In November 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-18, “Collaborative Arrangements (Topic 808): Clarifying the Interaction between Topic 808 and Topic 606.” ASU No. 2018-18 was issued to resolve the diversity in practice concerning the manner in which entities account for transactions based on their assessment of the economics of a collaborative arrangement. This guidance is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. This guidance is applicable to the Company’s fiscal year beginning June 1, 2020. The adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, “Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract (a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force).” ASU No. 2018-15 aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license). This guidance is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. This guidance is applicable to the Company’s fiscal year beginning June 1, 2020. The adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-13, “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement.” ASU No. 2018-13 modifies the disclosure requirements in Topic 820, “Fair Value Measurement,” based on the FASB Concepts Statement, “Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting - Chapter 8: Notes to Financial Statements,” including consideration of costs and benefits. This guidance is effective for all entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. This guidance is applicable to the Company’s fiscal year beginning June 1, 2020. The adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, “Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairments.” ASU No. 2017-04 establishes a one-step process for testing goodwill for a decrease in value, requiring a goodwill impairment loss to be measured as the excess of the reporting unit’s carrying amount over its fair value. The guidance eliminates the second step of the current two-step process that requires the impairment to be measured as the difference between the implied value of a reporting unit’s goodwill with the goodwill’s carrying amount. This guidance is effective for public business entities that are U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filers for its annual or interim goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for interim or annual impairment tests after January 1, 2017. This guidance is applicable to the Company’s fiscal year beginning June 1, 2020. The Company has completed its assessment of the adoption of this guidance, including changes to internal controls, and it will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, “Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.” ASU No. 2016-13, as amended by subsequent ASUs on the topic and commonly referred to as the current expected credit loss (“CECL”) model, requires an organization to measure all expected credit losses for financial assets held at the reporting date based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported financial assets. It also requires credit losses related to available-for-sale debt securities to be recorded through an allowance for credit losses. This guidance is effective for public business entities that are U.S. SEC filers for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. This guidance is applicable to the Company’s fiscal year beginning June 1, 2020 and will be adopted using the modified retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings.
The Company’s CECL implementation group has completed its evaluation, testing, and validation of the necessary CECL model changes to business processes, systems and controls to support the adoption of the new guidance and record expected credit losses to its accounts receivable, PEO unbilled receivables, and available-for-sale (“AFS”) debt securities as of June 1, 2020. The ultimate effect of CECL on our credit losses will depend on the size, composition and credit quality of the Company’s accounts receivable and investment portfolios, economic conditions at and subsequent to the date of adoption, as well as any refinements to our model, methodology and other key assumptions. The adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.