Our new Peer Group for fiscal 2020 is comprised of the following companies:
Item 6.
section_6: Item 6. Selected Financial Data
(1)In fiscal 2017, we early-adopted new accounting guidance related to employee stock-based compensation payments. As a result, a discrete tax benefit was recognized upon exercise or lapse of stock-based awards. This discrete tax benefit increased diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.04 per diluted share, $0.02 per diluted share, $0.04 per diluted share, and $0.05 per diluted share for fiscal 2020, fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018, and fiscal 2017, respectively.
(2)In fiscal 2018, the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”) significantly impacted our net income, basic and diluted earnings per share, and return on stockholders’ equity. Refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Form 10-K for additional discussion of the impact of the Tax Act.
(3)In fiscal 2018, an additional expense and corresponding tax benefit was recognized as a result of the termination of certain license agreements. Refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K for additional discussion of the impact of the termination of certain license agreements.
(4)In the fiscal year ended May 31, 2016 (“fiscal 2016”), a net tax benefit was recorded for income derived in prior tax years from customer-facing software we produced. This net tax benefit increased diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.06 per diluted share.
Item 7.
section_7: Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations reviews the operating results of Paychex, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (“Paychex,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us”) for each of the three fiscal years ended May 31, 2020 (“fiscal 2020” or the “fiscal year”), May 31, 2019 (“fiscal 2019”), and May 31, 2018 (“fiscal 2018”), and our financial condition as of May 31, 2020. This review should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and the related Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”) and the “Risk Factors” discussed in Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements in this review are qualified by the cautionary statement under the heading “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Pursuant to the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995” contained at the beginning of Part I of this Form 10-K.
Overview
We are a leading provider of integrated human capital management (“HCM”) solutions for human resources (“HR”), payroll, benefits, and insurance services for small- to medium-sized businesses. Within our HCM solutions, we offer a comprehensive portfolio of services and products that allow our clients to meet their diverse HR and payroll needs.
We support our small-business clients, reducing the complexity and risk of running their own payroll, while ensuring greater accuracy with up-to-date tax rates and regulatory information. Clients may choose to have our service team handle everything for them, or process payroll themselves utilizing our proprietary, robust, software-as-a-service (“SaaS”) Paychex Flex® platform and our SurePayroll® SaaS-based products. Our mid-market clients generally have more complex payroll and employee benefit needs. However, in the current environment of increasing regulations, we believe the needs for HR outsourcing solutions have been moving down-market. Any of our clients using Paychex Flex can opt for the integrated suite of HCM solutions, which allows clients to choose the services and software that will meet the needs of their business.
Our portfolio of HCM and employee benefit-related services is disaggregated into two categories, Management Solutions and Professional Employer Organization (“PEO”) and Insurance Solutions, as discussed in Part 1, Item 1 of this Form 10-K.
Our mission is to be the leading provider of HR, payroll, benefits, and insurance solutions by being an essential partner to small and medium-sized businesses across the U.S. and parts of Europe. We believe that success in this mission will lead to strong, long-term financial performance. Our strategy focuses on providing industry-leading, integrated technology; increasing client satisfaction; expanding our leadership in HR; growing our client base; and engaging in strategic acquisitions.
We continue to focus on driving growth in the number of clients, revenue per client, total revenue and profits, while providing industry-leading service and technology solutions to our clients and their employees. We maintain industry-leading margins by managing our personnel costs and expenses while continuing to invest in our business, particularly in leading-edge technology. We believe these investments are critical to our success. Looking to the future, we believe that investing in our products, people, and service capabilities will position us to capitalize on opportunities for long-term growth.
Effective December 20, 2018, the Company acquired Oasis Outsourcing Group Holdings, L.P. (“Oasis”). Upon closing, Oasis became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Oasis is an industry leader in providing HR outsourcing services. The purchase price was $992.2 million, net of $262.3 million in cash acquired, including $132.1 million of restricted cash. The acquisition was financed through a combination of cash on hand and the issuance of long-term private placement debt totaling $800.0 million.
Fiscal 2020 Financial Highlights
Financial highlights for fiscal 2020, compared to fiscal 2019, are as follows:
·Total revenue increased 7% to $4.0 billion. Oasis contributed approximately 4% to the growth in total revenue.
·Operating income increased 7% to $1.5 billion.
·Net income increased 6% to $1.1 billion. Adjusted net income(1) increased 5% to $1.1 billion.
·Diluted earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share(1) both increased 6% to $3.04 per share and $3.00 per share, respectively.
·Dividends of $889.4 million were paid to stockholders, representing approximately 81% of net income.
(1)Adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share are not U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) measures. Refer to the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section of this Item 7 for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures and a reconciliation to the most comparable U.S. GAAP measures of net income and diluted earnings per share.
For further analysis of our results of operations for fiscal years 2020, 2019, and 2018, and our financial position as of May 31, 2020, refer to the tables and analysis in the “Results of Operations” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” sections of this Item 7.
In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic affected our business, our customers’ businesses, and the markets we serve during the three months ended May 31, 2020 (the “fourth quarter”). See the “COVID-19 Response” section of this Item 7 for further discussion on the impact of COVID-19 on our results of operations along with our response to the pandemic.
Business Outlook
Our payroll and PEO client base, including all acquisitions, was greater than 680,000 and approximately 670,000 clients as of May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019, respectively, and greater than 650,000 clients as of May 31, 2018. Client retention was at record levels of over 83% of the beginning client base for fiscal 2020. Client retention was over 82% for fiscal 2019 and approximately 81% of the beginning client base for fiscal 2018.
While our HR product offerings provide services to employers and employees beyond payroll, they effectively leverage payroll processing data. These services are included as part of the integrated HCM solution within Paychex Flex or provided through the Prism HR PEO platform. The following table illustrates the growth in selected HR product offerings:
(1)Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers.
(2)Oasis is included in the total number of worksite employees and clients for both fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019.
Concentrated effort remains on the continued enhancements of Paychex Flex, our robust, cloud-based HCM software solutions platform, which allows direct client access to HR, payroll, and benefits information in a streamlined and integrated approach to workplace management. In fiscal 2020, we continued to focus on enhancing the value to clients, including new offerings and enhancements to Paychex Flex as follows:
·Paychex Integrations enabling users to connect Paychex Flex with some of the world’s leading HR, accounting, point-of-sale, and productivity applications on the market;
·Smartwatch Solution, which enables users to track time worked via their smartwatch;
·Pay-on-Demand, which provides participating customer employees the option to request access to a portion of earned pay before the scheduled pay date;
·Real-Time Payments, which provides employers an efficient way to instantly pay their employees for time worked;
·Help Center, which provides users access to training resources and how-to tutorials in written, video, and tour-like deliverables;
·Enhancements to Flex Assistant, that provides a user with an in-app learning journey that aligns with their preferences as a verbal, visual, or physical learner and offers written how-to documents, tutorial-style video vignettes, or a guided interactive tour from in-app step-by-step messaging;
·Document Management was enhanced to add electronic signature capabilities and the ability for customers to run on-demand reports that show the entire process, from initial log-in through signature event;
·HR Conversations, a new tool that enables managers, employees, and HR staff to collaborate and capture day-to-day interactions; and
·Other enhancements including, grid entry view capabilities and the ability for employees and administrative users to create a custom dashboard.
We continue to strengthen our position in the industry by serving as a source of education and information to clients, businesses of all sizes, and other interested parties. We provide free webinars, white papers, and other information on our website to aid existing and prospective clients with the impact of regulatory changes. The Paychex Insurance Agency, Inc. website, www.paychex.com/group-health-insurance, helps small-business owners navigate the area of insurance coverage. Both this website and www.paychex.com/worx have sections dedicated to the topic of health care reform.
COVID-19 Response
In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic began affecting our operations and employees, our customers’ businesses, and the markets we serve in the three months ended May 31, 2020 (the “fourth quarter”). The health and safety of our employees remains our top priority. We were expedient with the implementation of our business continuity plan, which included moving 95% of our workforce to work remotely and restricting unnecessary travel. Results of operations for the fourth quarter were adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic as businesses suspended operations. Management Solutions revenue was impacted by a decline in check volumes, partially offset by increased penetration of retirement services and time and attendance services. The decline in check volumes was due to a reduction in the number of clients processing payrolls as well as the number of employees paid due to state and regional shutdowns. PEO and Insurance Solutions revenue was impacted by a decline in the number of worksite employees serviced by our existing clients. Insurance Solutions revenue was impacted by a decrease in the number of health and benefit applicants and a decline in workers’ compensation premiums. Since the end of April, we have seen sequential improvement in our key business metrics across our lines of business.
As our clients continue to manage through the COVID-19 pandemic, our priority remains helping them keep their businesses open and return to more normal operations. Our blend of technology and service provides valuable tools and resources to assist our clients and their employees during this critical time. The technology investments we made to our Paychex Flex payroll and human resources suite of products positioned us to service our clients and support them in managing a remote workforce.
We created a COVID-19 Help Center on our website to assist our clients and provide them with the support and resources they need, including:
Webinars and white papers with information on the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act, including the historic PPP, and Families First Coronavirus Response Act;
Guidance on the Small Business Administration (“SBA”) loan and debt relief process,
Interactive PPP loan estimation tool for businesses who are considering or have received funding through the SBA program; and