TRS-RenTelco rents and sells electronic test equipment nationally and internationally from two facilities located on the grounds of the Dallas Fort Worth International Airport in Grapevine, Texas (the “Dallas facility”) and Dollard-des-Ormeaux, Canada (the “Montreal facility”). TRS-RenTelco’s revenues are derived from the rental and sale of general purpose and communications test equipment to a broad range of companies, from Fortune 500 to middle and smaller market companies, in the aerospace, defense, communications, manufacturing and semiconductor industries. Electronic test equipment revenues are primarily affected by the business activity within these industries related to research and development, manufacturing, and communication infrastructure installation and maintenance. The Dallas facility, TRS-RenTelco’s primary operating location, houses the electronic test equipment inventory, sales engineers, calibration laboratories, and operations staff for U.S. and international business. The Montreal facility houses sales engineers and operations staff to serve the Canadian market. As of December 31, 2020, the original cost of electronic test equipment inventory was comprised of 78% general purpose electronic test equipment and 22% communications electronic test equipment.
Engineers, technicians and scientists utilize general purpose electronic test equipment in developing products, controlling manufacturing processes, completing field service applications and evaluating the performance of their own electrical and electronic equipment. These instruments are rented primarily to aerospace, defense, electronics, industrial, research and semiconductor industries. To date, Keysight Technologies, Rhode & Schwarz and Tektronix, a division of Fortive Corporation, have manufactured the majority of TRS-RenTelco’s general purpose electronic test equipment with the remainder acquired from over 60 other manufacturers.
Communications test equipment, including fiber optic test equipment, is utilized by technicians, engineers and installation contractors to evaluate voice, data and multimedia communications networks, to install fiber optic cabling, and in the development and manufacturing of transmission, network and wireless products. These instruments are rented primarily to manufacturers of communications equipment and products, electrical and communications installation contractors, field technicians, and service providers. To date, Anritsu, Viavi Solutions and Fluke Networks, a division of Fortive Corporation, have manufactured a significant portion of TRS-RenTelco’s communications test equipment, with the remainder acquired from over 40 other manufacturers.
TRS-RenTelco’s general purpose test equipment rental inventory includes oscilloscopes, amplifiers, analyzers (spectrum, network and logic), signal source and power source test equipment. The communications test equipment rental inventory includes network and transmission test equipment for various fiber, copper and wireless networks. TRS-RenTelco occasionally rents electronic test equipment from other rental companies and re-rents the equipment to customers.
Competitive Strengths
Market Leadership - The Company believes that TRS-RenTelco is one of the largest electronic test equipment rental and leasing companies offering a broad and deep selection of general purpose and communications test equipment for rent in North America.
Expertise - The Company believes that its knowledge of products, technology and applications expertise provides it with a competitive advantage over others in the industry. Customer requirements are supported by application engineers and technicians that are knowledgeable about the equipment’s uses to ensure the right equipment is selected to meet the customer’s needs. This knowledge can be attributed to the experience of TRS-RenTelco’s management, sales and operational teams.
Operating Structure - TRS-RenTelco is supported by a centralized distribution and inventory center on the grounds of the Dallas-Fort Worth Airport in Texas. The Company believes that the centralization of servicing all customers in North America and internationally by TRS-RenTelco’s experienced logistics teams provides a competitive advantage by minimizing transaction costs and enabling TRS-RenTelco to ensure customer requirements are met.
Asset Management - TRS-RenTelco’s rental equipment inventory is serviced by an ISO 9001-2015 registered and compliant calibration laboratory that repairs and calibrates equipment ensuring that off rent equipment is ready to ship immediately to meet customers’ needs. TRS-RenTelco’s team of technicians, product managers and sales personnel are continuously monitoring and analyzing the utilization of existing products, new technologies, general economic conditions and estimates of customer demand to ensure the right equipment is purchased and sold, at the right point in the equipment’s technology life cycle. The Company believes this enables it to maximize utilization of equipment and the cash flow generated by the rental and sales revenue of each model of equipment. TRS-RenTelco strives to maintain strong relationships with equipment manufacturers, which enables it to leverage those relationships to gain rental opportunities.
Customer Service - The Company believes that its focus on providing excellent service to its customers provides a competitive advantage. TRS-RenTelco strives to provide exemplary service to fulfill its commitments to its customers. TRS-RenTelco prides itself
in providing solutions to meet customers’ needs by having equipment available and responding quickly and thoroughly to their requests. TRS-RenTelco’s sophisticated in-house laboratory ensures the equipment is fully functional and meets its customers’ delivery requirements. Service needs of TRS-RenTelco’s customers are supported 24 hours a day, 7 days a week by its customer care specialists. TRS-RenTelco’s goal is to provide service beyond its customers’ expectations, which, the Company believes, results in customer loyalty and repeat business.
Market
Electronic test equipment rental is a market which we estimate has equipment on rent worldwide or available for rent with an aggregate original cost in excess of $1 billion. There is a broad customer base for the rental of such instruments, including aerospace, communications, defense, electrical contractor, electronics, industrial, installer contractor, network systems and research companies.
TRS-RenTelco markets its electronic test equipment throughout the United States, Canada, and, to a limited extent, other countries. TRS-RenTelco attracts customers through its outside sales force, website at www.TRSRenTelco.com, telemarketing program, trade show participation, paid internet search and electronic mail campaigns. A key part of the sales process is TRS-RenTelco’s knowledgeable inside sales engineering team that effectively matches test equipment solutions to meet specific customer’s requirements.
The Company believes that customers rent electronic test equipment for many reasons. Customers frequently need equipment for short-term projects, to evaluate new products, and for backup to avoid costly downtime. Delivery times for the purchase of such equipment can be lengthy; thus, renting allows the customer to obtain the equipment expeditiously. The Company also believes that the relative certainty of rental costs can facilitate cost control and be useful in the bidding of and pass-through of contract costs. Finally, renting rather than purchasing may better satisfy the customer’s budgetary constraints.
Rentals
TRS-RenTelco rents electronic test equipment typically for rental periods of one to six months, although in some instances, rental terms can be up to a year or longer. Monthly rental rates typically are between 2% and 10% of the current manufacturers’ list price. TRS-RenTelco depreciates its equipment over 1 to 8 years with no residual value.
At December 31, 2020, TRS-RenTelco had an electronic test equipment rental inventory including accessories with an aggregate cost of $333.0 million. Utilization is calculated each month by dividing the cost of the rental equipment on rent by the total cost of rental equipment, excluding accessory equipment. Utilization was 67.4% as of December 31, 2020 and averaged 66.2% during the year.
Sales
Profit from equipment sales is a material component of TRS-RenTelco’s overall annual earnings. Gross profit from sales of both used and new equipment over the last five years generally has ranged from approximately 20% to 24% of total annual gross profit for our electronics division. For 2020, gross profit on equipment sales was approximately 21% of total division gross profit. Equipment sales are driven by the turnover of older technology rental equipment, to maintain target utilization at a model number level, and new equipment sales opportunities. In 2020, approximately 19% of the electronic test equipment revenues were derived from sales. The largest electronic test equipment sale during 2020 represented 9% of electronic test equipment sales, 2% of the Company’s consolidated sales and less than 1% of consolidated revenues. There is intense competition in the sales of electronic test equipment from a world-wide network of test equipment brokers and resellers, legacy rental companies, and equipment manufacturers. We believe the annual world-wide sale of electronic test equipment is in excess of $8.0 billion per year.
Seasonality
Rental activity may decline in the fourth quarter month of December and the first quarter months of January and February. These months may have lower rental activity due to holiday closures, particularly by larger companies, inclement weather and its impact on various field related communications equipment rentals, and companies’ operational recovery from holiday closures which may impact the start-up of new projects coming online in the first quarter. These factors may impact the quarterly results of each year’s first and fourth quarter.
Competition
The electronic test equipment rental business is characterized by intense competition from several competitors, including Electro Rent Corporation, Continental Resources, and TestEquity, some of which may have access to greater financial and other resources than we do. TRS-RenTelco competes with these and other test equipment rental companies on the basis of product availability, price, service and reliability. Although no single competitor holds a dominant market share, we face intense competition from these established entities and new entrants in the market. Some of our competitors may offer similar equipment for lease, rental or sales at lower prices and may offer more extensive servicing, or financing options.
LIQUID AND SOLID CONTAINMENT TANKS AND BOXES
Description
Adler Tanks’ rental inventory is comprised of tanks and boxes used for various containment solutions to store hazardous and non-hazardous liquids and solids in applications such as: oil and gas exploration and field services, refinery, chemical and industrial plant maintenance, environmental remediation and field services, infrastructure building construction, marine services, pipeline construction and maintenance, tank terminals services, wastewater treatment, and waste management and landfill services. The tanks and boxes are comprised of the following products:
•
fixed axle steel tanks (“tanks”) for the storage of groundwater, wastewater, volatile organic liquids, sewage, slurry and bio sludge, oil and water mixtures and chemicals, which are available in a variety of sizes including 21,000 gallon, 16,000 gallon and 8,000 gallon sizes;
•
vacuum containers (“boxes”), which provide secure containment of sludge and solid materials and may be used for additional on-site storage or for transporting materials off-site enabling vacuum trucks to remain in operation;
•
dewatering boxes for the separation of water contained in sludge and slurry; and
•
roll-off and trash boxes for the temporary storage and transport of solid waste.
Adler Tanks purchases tanks and boxes from various manufacturers located throughout the country.
Competitive Strengths
Market Leadership - The Company believes that Adler Tanks is one of the largest participants in the liquid and solid containment tanks and boxes rental business in North America. Adler Tanks has national reach from branches serving the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, Southeast, Southwest and West.
Expertise and Customer Service - The Company believes that Adler Tanks has highly experienced operating management and branch employees. Adler Tanks employees are knowledgeable about the operation of its rental equipment and customer applications. The Company believes that Adler Tanks provides a superior level of customer service due to its strong relationship building skills and the quality of its responsiveness.
Asset Management - The Company believes that Adler Tanks markets a high quality, well-constructed and well-maintained rental product. The Company depreciates its tanks and boxes over a 20 year estimated useful life to 0% residual value. We believe that if maintained, older tanks and boxes will continue to produce similar rental rates as newer equipment. The fleet’s utilization is regionally optimized by understanding key vertical market customer demand, seasonality factors, competitor’s product availability and expected equipment returns.
Market
Liquid and solid containment equipment rental is a market in the U.S with a large and diverse number of market segments including oil and gas exploration and field services, refinery, chemical and industrial plant maintenance, environmental remediation and field services, infrastructure building construction, marine services, pipeline construction and maintenance, electrical grid transformer maintenance, tank terminals services, wastewater treatment, and waste management and landfill services.
The tank and box rental products may be utilized throughout the U.S. and are not subject to any local or regional construction code or approval standards.
Rentals