Among other restrictions, the Note Purchase Agreement, under which the Series B Senior Notes and Series C Senior Notes were sold, contains financial covenants requiring the Company to not (all defined terms used below not otherwise defined herein have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Note Purchase Agreement):
•
Permit the Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio of EBITDA (as defined in the Note Purchase Agreement) to fixed charges as of the end of any fiscal quarter to be less than 2.50 to 1. At December 31, 2020, the actual ratio was 4.34 to 1.
•
Permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio of funded debt to EBITDA (as defined in the Note Purchase Agreement) at any time during any period of four consecutive quarters to be greater than 2.75 to 1. At December 31, 2020, the actual ratio was 0.92 to 1.
At December 31, 2020, the Company was in compliance with each of the aforementioned covenants. There are no anticipated trends that the Company is aware of that would indicate non-compliance with these covenants, although significant deterioration in our financial performance could impact the Company’s ability to comply with these covenants.
Although no assurance can be given, the Company believes it will continue to be able to negotiate general bank lines of credit and issue senior notes adequate to meet capital requirements not otherwise met by operational cash flows and proceeds from sales of rental equipment. Furthermore, the Company believes it has the financial resources to weather the expected impacts of COVID-19. However, the Company has limited insight into the extent to which its business may be impacted by COVID-19, and there are many uncertainties, including how long and how severely the Company will be impacted. An extended and severe impact may materially and adversely affect the Company’s future operations, financial position and liquidity.
Contractual Obligations and Commitments
At December 31, 2020, the Company’s material contractual obligations and commitments consisted of outstanding borrowings under our credit facilities expiring in 2025, outstanding amounts under our 3.68% and 3.84% senior notes due in 2021 and 2022, respectively, and operating leases for facilities. The operating lease amounts exclude property taxes and insurance. The table below provides a summary of the Company’s contractual obligations and reflects expected payments due as of December 31, 2020 and does not reflect changes that could arise after that date.
Payments Due by Period
The Company believes that its needs for working capital and capital expenditures through 2021 and beyond will be adequately met by operating cash flow, proceeds from the sale of rental equipment, and bank borrowings.
Please see the Company's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows on page 65 for a more detailed presentation of the sources and uses of the Company's cash.
Critical Accounting Policies
In response to the SEC’s Release No. 33-8040, “Cautionary Advice Regarding Disclosure About Critical Accounting Policies,” the Company has identified the most critical accounting policies upon which its financial status depends. The Company determined its critical accounting policies by considering those policies that involve the most complex or subjective decisions or assessments. The Company has identified that its most critical accounting policies are those related to revenue recognition, depreciation, maintenance, repair and refurbishment, impairment of rental equipment and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets. Descriptions of these accounting policies are found in both the notes to the consolidated financial statements and at relevant sections in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis.
Revenue recognition:
Lease revenue - Rental revenues from operating leases are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease for all operating segments. Rental billings for periods extending beyond period end are recorded as deferred income and are recognized in the period earned. Rental related services revenues are primarily associated with relocatable modular building and liquid and solid containment tanks and boxes leases. For modular building leases, rental related services revenues for modifications, delivery, installation, dismantle and return delivery are lease related because the payments are considered minimum lease payments that are an integral part of the negotiated lease agreement with the customer. These revenues are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Certain leases are accounted for as sales-type leases. For these leases, sales revenue and the related accounts receivable are recognized upon delivery and installation of the equipment and the unearned interest is recognized over the lease term on a basis which results in a constant rate of return on the unrecovered lease investment. Other revenues include interest income on sales-type leases and rental income on facility leases.
Non-lease revenue - Sales revenue is recognized upon delivery and installation of the equipment to customers. Certain leases are accounted for as sales-type leases. For these leases, sales revenue and the related accounts receivable are recognized upon delivery and installation of the equipment and the unearned interest is recognized over the lease term on a basis which results in a constant rate of return on the unrecovered lease investment. The Company typically recognizes non-lease related revenues at a point in time because the customer does not simultaneously consume the benefits of the Company’s promised goods and services, or performance obligations, and obtain control when delivery and installation are complete. For contracts that have multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation in the contract based on the Company’s best estimate of the standalone selling prices of each distinct performance obligation in the contract. The standalone selling price is typically determined based upon the expected cost plus an estimated margin of each performance obligation.
Depreciation - The estimated useful lives and estimated residual values used for rental equipment are based on the Company’s experience as to the economic useful life and sale value of its products. Additionally, to the extent information is publicly available, the Company also compares its depreciation policies to other companies with similar rental products for reasonableness.
The lives and residual values of rental equipment are subject to periodic evaluation. For modular equipment, external factors to consider may include, but are not limited to, changes in legislation, regulations, building codes, local permitting, and supply or demand. Internal factors for modulars may include, but are not limited to, change in equipment specifications, condition of equipment, or maintenance policies. For electronic test equipment, external factors to consider may include, but are not limited to, technological advances, changes in manufacturers’ selling prices, and supply or demand. Internal factors for electronic test equipment may include, but are not limited to, change in equipment specifications, condition of equipment or maintenance policies. For liquid and solid containment tanks and boxes, external factors to consider may include, but are not limited to, changes in Federal and State legislation, the types of materials stored and the frequency of movements and uses. Internal factors for liquid and solid containment tanks and boxes may include, but are not limited to, change in equipment specifications and maintenance policies.
Changes in useful lives or residual values will impact depreciation expense and any gain or loss from the sale of used equipment. Depending on the magnitude of such changes, the impact on the financial statements could be significant.
Maintenance, repair and refurbishment - Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. The direct material and labor costs of value-added additions or major refurbishment of modular buildings are capitalized to the extent the refurbishment significantly improves the quality and adds value or life to the equipment. Judgment is involved as to when these costs should be capitalized. The Company’s policies narrowly limit the capitalization of value-added items to specific additions such as restrooms, sidewalls and ventilation upgrades. In addition, only major refurbishment costs incurred near the end of the estimated useful life of the rental equipment, which extend its useful life, and are subject to certain limitations, are capitalized. Changes in these policies could impact the Company’s financial results.
Impairment of rental equipment - The carrying value of the Company’s rental equipment is its capitalized cost less accumulated depreciation. To the extent events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value cannot be recovered, an impairment loss is recognized to reduce the carrying value to fair value. The Company determines fair value based upon the condition of the equipment and the projected net cash flows from its rental and sale considering current market conditions. Additionally, if the Company decides to sell or otherwise dispose of the rental equipment, it is carried at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell or dispose. Due to uncertainties inherent in the valuation process and market conditions, it is reasonably possible that actual results of operating and disposing of rental equipment could be materially different than current expectations.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets - The Company assesses the carrying amount of its recorded goodwill and intangible assets annually or in interim periods if circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. The impairment review is performed by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The evaluation consists of estimating the fair value of the reporting unit based on discounted cash flows using revenue and after tax profit estimates. Management then compares its estimate of the fair value of the reporting unit with the reporting unit’s carrying amount, which includes goodwill and intangible assets. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, then goodwill and intangible assets are not impaired. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit were to exceed its fair value, an impairment loss is recorded for the amount equal to the difference the reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value.
Impact of Inflation
Although the Company cannot precisely determine the effect of inflation, from time to time it has experienced increases in costs of rental equipment, manufacturing costs, operating expenses and interest. Because a majority of its rentals are relatively short-term, the Company has generally been able to pass on such increased costs through increases in rental rates and selling prices, but there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to pass on increased costs to customers in the future.
Off Balance Sheet Transactions
As of December 31, 2020, the Company did not have any “off-balance-sheet arrangements,” as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K.
ITEM 7A.
section_7A: ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.
The Company is exposed to cash flow and fair value risk due to changes in interest rates with respect to its 3.68% and 3.84% senior notes due in 2021 and 2022, respectively, and its revolving lines of credit. Weighted average variable rates are based on implied forward rates in the yield curve at December 31, 2020. The estimate of fair value of the Company’s fixed rate debt is based on the borrowing rates currently available to the Company for bank loans with similar terms and average maturities. The table below presents principal cash flows by expected annual maturities, related weighted average interest rates and estimated fair value for the Company’s Series B and Series C Senior Notes and the Company’s revolving lines of credit under the Credit Facility and Sweep Service Facility as of December 31, 2020.
The Company formed a wholly owned Canadian subsidiary, TRS-RenTelco Inc., in 2004 in conjunction with the TRS acquisition and a wholly owned Indian subsidiary, TRS-RenTelco India Private Limited, in 2013. The Company commenced the closure of its Indian operations during 2017. The Canadian operations of the Company subject it to foreign currency risks (i.e. the possibility that the