financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates). Currently, the Company does not use derivative instruments to hedge its economic exposure with respect to assets, liabilities and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In 2020, the Company experienced minimal impact on net income due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Although there can be no assurances, given the size of the Canadian operations, the Company does not expect future foreign exchange gains and losses to be significant.
The Company has no derivative financial instruments that expose the Company to significant market risk.
ITEM 8.
section_8: ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
Index
Page
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019
Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
The Company’s management is responsible for the preparation and integrity of the consolidated financial statements appearing in our Annual Report filed on Form 10-K. The consolidated financial statements were prepared in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles and include amounts based on management’s estimates and judgments. All other financial information in this report has been presented on a basis consistent with the information included in the financial statements.
The Company’s management is also responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company maintains a system of internal control that is designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliable preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial statements, as well as to safeguard assets from unauthorized use or disposition.
The Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting is embodied in the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. It sets the tone of our organization and includes factors such as integrity and ethical values. Our internal control over financial reporting is supported by formal policies and procedures, which are reviewed, modified and improved as changes occur in business conditions and operations.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate.
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, which is composed solely of outside directors, meets periodically with members of management and the independent auditors to review and discuss internal control over financial reporting, as well as accounting and financial reporting matters. The independent auditors report to the Audit Committee and accordingly have full and free access to the Audit Committee at any time.
The Company’s management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020 based on the criteria set forth in the 2013 Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on its evaluation, management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2020, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria.
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
Board of Directors and Shareholders
McGrath RentCorp
Opinion on internal control over financial reporting
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of McGrath RentCorp (a California corporation) and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in the 2013 Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in the 2013 Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by COSO.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“PCAOB”), the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020, and our report dated February 23, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.
Basis for opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and limitations of internal control over financial reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ GRANT THORNTON LLP
San Jose, California
February 23, 2021
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
Board of Directors and Shareholders
McGrath RentCorp
Opinion on the financial statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of McGrath RentCorp (a California corporation) and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “financial statements”). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“PCAOB”), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in the 2013 Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”), and our report dated February 23, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion.
Basis for opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical audit matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.
Valuation of TRS-RenTelco rental equipment
As described further in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Company evaluates the carrying value of rental equipment for impairment whenever events and circumstances have occurred that would indicate the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. We identified the valuation of the Company’s TRS-RenTelco rental equipment as a critical audit matter.
The principal consideration for our determination of the valuation of the TRS-RenTelco rental equipment as a critical audit matter is that the TRS-RenTelco rental equipment can be sensitive to new developments in technology, which creates the risk that equipment could become obsolete or impaired. Management’s impairment analysis relies on estimates of future financial performance of its rental equipment. These estimates include assumptions based upon historical and projected results including utilization, rental pricing and the equipment’s useful life and expected sales proceeds. The failure to achieve these projections might be indicators of potential impairment.
Our audit procedures related to the impairment of TRS-RenTelco rental equipment included the following, among others.
•
We tested the design and operating effectiveness of controls relating to the impairment process, determination of the assumptions, and review of equipment that didn’t meet assumed performance thresholds.
•
We evaluated the appropriateness of useful lives assigned to the rental equipment.
•
We analyzed trends in utilization and yield at a disaggregated product level, both year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter to evaluate if indicators of impairment were present for any particular product.
•
For a sample of assets, we inspected underlying documents and compared to the information in management’s analysis for accuracy.
•
We independently identified any underperforming assets by recalculating management’s analysis performed by using actual margins on sales proceeds.
•