The Company enters into sales-type leases with certain qualified customers to purchase its rental equipment, primarily at its TRS-RenTelco operating segment. Sales-type leases have terms that generally range from 12 to 36 months and are collateralized by a security interest in the underlying rental asset. The net investment in sales-type leases was $1.8 million at December 31, 2020 and $2.9 million at December 31, 2019. The Company’s assessment of current expected losses on these receivables was not material and no credit loss expense was provided as of December 31, 2020. The Company regularly reviews the allowance by considering factors such as historical payment experience, the age of the lease receivable balances, credit quality and current economic conditions that may affect a customer's ability to pay. Lease receivables are considered past due 90 days after invoice. The Company manages the credit risk in net investment in sales-type leases, on an ongoing basis, using a number of factors, including, but not limited to the following: historical payment history, credit score, size of operations, length of time in business, industry, historical profitability, historical cash flows, liquidity and past due amounts. The Company uses credit scores obtained from external credit bureaus as a key indicator for the purposes of determining credit quality of its new customers. The Company does not own available for sale debt securities or other financial assets at December 31, 2020.
NOTE 4. LEASES
Lessee
The Company leases real estate for certain of its branch offices and rental equipment storage yards, vehicles and equipment used in its rental operations. The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception. The Company has leases with lease and non-lease components, which are accounted for separately. Right-Of-Use (“ROU”) assets and liabilities are recognized on the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. Variable lease payments are excluded from the ROU assets and lease liabilities and are recognized in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred, which are not material. The Company’s lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The Company uses the interest rate stated in the lease as the discount rate. If the interest rate is not stated, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on information available on lease commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. Many of the Company’s real estate lease agreements include options to extend the lease, which are not included in the minimum lease terms unless they are reasonably certain to be exercised. These leases include one or more options to renew, with renewal terms that may extend the lease term from one to three years. The amount of payments associated with such options is not material. Short-term leases are leases having a term of twelve months or less and exclude leases with a lease term of one month or less. The Company recognizes short-term leases on a straight-line basis and does not record a related ROU asset or liability for such leases. At December 31, 2020 and 2019 the Company’s ROU assets and operating lease liabilities was $8.3 million and $9.9 million, respectively, which are recorded in Prepaid expenses and other assets and Accounts payable and accrued liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, operating lease expense was $3.8 million, which includes short term lease expense of $0.1 million. At December 31, 2020, the weighted-average remaining lease term for operating leases was 3.2 years and the weighted average discount rate was 3.95%. The Company had no sub-lease income during the year ended December 31, 2020, and did not have any finance leases as of December 31, 2020.
Supplemental cash flow information related to leases was as follows:
As of December 31, 2020, maturities of operating lease liabilities were as follows:
Lessor
The Company’s equipment rentals for each of its operating segments are governed by agreements that detail the lease terms and conditions. The determination of whether these contracts with customers contain a lease generally does not require significant judgement. The Company accounts for these rentals as operating leases. These leases do not include material amounts of variable payments and the Company has made the accounting policy election to exclude all taxes assessed by a governmental authority. The Company generally does not provide an option for the lessee to purchase the rented equipment at the end of the lease term, thus, does not generate material revenue from sales of equipment under such options. Initial lease terms vary in length based upon customer needs and generally range from one to sixty months. Customers have the option to keep equipment on rent beyond the initial lease term on a month-to month basis based upon their needs. All of the Company’s rental products have long useful lives relative to the typical rental term with the original investment typically recovered in approximately three to five years. The rental products are typically rented for a majority of the time owned and a significant portion of the original investment is recovered when sold from inventory. The Company’s lease agreements do not contain residual value guarantees or restrictive covenants.
As of December 31, 2020, maturities of operating lease payments to be received in 2021 and thereafter were as follows:
In the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company’s lease revenues were $401.9 million, consisting of $399.5 of operating lease revenues and $2.4 million of finance lease revenues. The Company has entered into finance leases to finance certain equipment sales to customers. The lease agreements have a bargain purchase option at the end of the lease term. For these leases, sales revenue and the related accounts receivable are recognized upon delivery and installation of the equipment and the unearned interest is recognized over the lease term on a basis, which results in a constant rate of return on the unrecovered lease investment. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company’s finance lease revenues included $2.2 million of sales revenues and $0.2 million of interest income. The minimum lease payments receivable and the net investment are included in Accounts receivable on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet for such leases, which were as follows:
As of December 31, 2020, the future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable finance leases to be received in 2021 and thereafter were as follows:
NOTE 5. REVENUE RECOGNITION
The Company’s accounting for revenues is governed by two accounting standards. The majority of the Company’s revenues are considered lease or lease related and are accounted for in accordance with Topic 840, Leases. Revenues determined to be non-lease related are accounted for in accordance with ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which was adopted by the Company on January 1, 2018. The Company utilized the modified retrospective method of adoption and there was no impact on its condensed consolidated financial statements, nor was there a cumulative effect of initially applying the new standard. The Company accounts for revenues when approval and commitment from both parties have been obtained, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable. The Company typically recognizes non-lease related revenues at a point in time because the customer does not simultaneously consume the
benefits of the Company’s promised goods and services, or performance obligations, and obtain control when delivery and installation are complete. For contracts that have multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation in the contract based on the Company’s best estimate of the standalone selling prices of each distinct performance obligation in the contract. The standalone selling price is typically determined based upon the expected cost plus an estimated margin of each performance obligation.
The Company generally rents and sells to customers on 30 day payment terms. The Company does not typically offer variable payment terms, or accept non-monetary consideration. Amounts billed and due from the Company’s customers are classified as Accounts receivable on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. For certain sales of modular buildings, progress payments from the customer are received during the manufacturing of new equipment, or the preparation of used equipment. The advance payments are not considered a significant financing component because the payments are used to meet working capital needs during the contract and to protect the Company from the customer failing to adequately complete their obligations under the contract. These contract liabilities are included in Deferred income on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets and totaled $11.3 million and $17.5 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Sales revenues totaling $17.0 million were recognized during the year ended December 31, 2020, which were included in the contract liability balance at December 31, 2019. For certain modular building sales, the customer retains a small portion of the contract price until full completion of the contract, which results in revenue earned in excess of billings. These unbilled contract assets are included in Accounts receivable on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets and totaled $1.4 million and $1.0 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Lease Revenues
Rental revenues from operating leases are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease for all operating segments. Rental billings for periods extending beyond period end are recorded as deferred income and are recognized in the period earned. Rental related services revenues are primarily associated with relocatable modular building and liquid and solid containment tanks and boxes leases. For modular building leases, rental related services revenues for modifications, delivery, installation, dismantle and return delivery are lease related because the payments are considered minimum lease payments that are an integral part of the negotiated lease agreement with the customer. These revenues are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Certain leases are accounted for as sales-type leases. For these leases, sales revenue and the related accounts receivable are recognized upon delivery and installation of the equipment and the unearned interest is recognized over the lease term on a basis which results in a constant rate of return on the unrecovered lease investment. Other revenues include interest income on sales-type leases and rental income on facility leases.
Non-Lease Revenues
Non-lease revenues are recognized in the period when control of the performance obligation is transferred, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for those goods or services. For liquid and solid containment solutions, portable storage containers and electronic test equipment, rental related services revenues for delivery and return delivery are considered non-lease revenues.
Sales revenues are typically recognized at a point in time, which occurs upon the completion of delivery, installation and acceptance of the equipment by the customer. Accounting for non-lease revenues requires judgment in determining the point in time the customer gains control of the equipment and the appropriate accounting period to recognize revenue.
Sales taxes charged to customers are reported on a net basis and are excluded from revenues and expenses.
The following table disaggregates the Company’s revenues by lease (within the scope of Topic 840) and non-lease revenues (within the scope of Topic 606) and the underlying service provided for the three years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018: