Expertise - The Company believes that over the 40 plus years during which Mobile Modular has competed in the modular rental industry, it has developed expertise that differentiates it from its competitors. Mobile Modular has dedicated its attention to continuously developing and improving the quality of its modular units. Mobile Modular has expertise in the licensing and regulatory requirements that govern modulars in the states where it operates, and its management, sales and operational staffs are knowledgeable and committed to providing exemplary customer service. Mobile Modular has expertise in project management and complex applications.
Operating Structure - Part of the Company’s strategy for Mobile Modular is to create facilities and infrastructure capabilities that its competitors cannot easily duplicate. Mobile Modular achieves this by building regional sales and inventory centers designed to serve a broad geographic area and a large installed customer base under a single overhead structure, thereby reducing its cost per transaction. The Company’s regional facilities and related infrastructure enable Mobile Modular to maximize its modular inventory utilization through efficient and cost effective in-house repair, maintenance and refurbishment for quick redeployment of equipment to meet its customers’ needs.
Asset Management - The Company believes Mobile Modular markets high quality, well-constructed and attractive modulars. Mobile Modular requires manufacturers to build to its specifications, which enables Mobile Modular to maintain a standardized quality fleet. In addition, through its ongoing repair, refurbishment and maintenance programs, the Company believes Mobile Modular’s buildings are the best maintained in the industry. The Company depreciates its modular buildings over an 18 year estimated useful life
to a 50% residual value. Older buildings continue to be productive primarily because of Mobile Modular’s focus on ongoing fleet maintenance. Also, as a result of Mobile Modular’s maintenance programs, when a modular unit is sold, a high percentage of the equipment’s capitalized cost is recovered. In addition, the fleet’s utilization is regionally optimized by managing inventory through estimates of market demand, fulfillment of current rental and sale order activity, modular returns and capital purchases.
Customer Service - The Company believes the modular rental industry to be service intensive and locally based. The Company strives to provide excellent service by meeting its commitments to its customers, being proactive in resolving project issues and seeking to continuously improve the customers’ experience. Mobile Modular is committed to offering quick response to requests for information, providing experienced assistance, on time delivery and preventative maintenance of its units. Mobile Modular’s goal is to continuously improve its procedures, processes and computer systems to enhance internal operational efficiency. The Company believes this dedication to customer service results in high levels of customer loyalty and repeat business.
Market
Management estimates relocatable modular building rental is an industry that today has equipment on rent or available for rent in the U.S. with an aggregate original cost of over $5.0 billion. Mobile Modular’s largest market segment is for temporary classroom and other educational space needs of public and private schools, colleges and universities in California and Florida, and to a lesser extent in Texas, Louisiana, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Maryland, Virginia and Washington, D.C. Management believes the demand for rental classrooms is caused by shifting and fluctuating school populations, the limited state funds for new construction, the need for temporary classroom space during reconstruction of older schools, class size reduction and the phasing out of portable classrooms compliant with older building codes (see “Classroom Rentals and Sales to Public Schools (K-12)” below). Other customer applications include sales offices, construction field offices, health care facilities, church sanctuaries and child care facilities. Industrial, manufacturing, entertainment and utility companies, as well as governmental agencies commonly use large multi-modular complexes to serve their interim administrative and operational space needs. Modulars offer customers quick, cost-effective space solutions while conserving their capital. The Company’s corporate offices and regional sales and inventory center offices are housed in various sizes of modular units.
Since most of Mobile Modular’s customer requirements are to fill temporary space needs, Mobile Modular’s marketing emphasis is on rentals rather than sales. Mobile Modular attracts customers through its website at www.mobilemodular.com, internet advertising and direct marketing. Customers are encouraged to visit a regional sales and inventory center to view different models on display and to see a regional office, which is a working example of a modular application.
Because service is a major competitive factor in the rental of modulars, Mobile Modular offers quick response to requests for information, assistance in the choice of a suitable size and floor plan, in-house customization services, rapid delivery, timely installation and field service of its units. On Mobile Modular’s website, customers are able to view and select inventory for quotation and request in-field service.
Rentals
Rental periods range from one month to several years with a typical initial contract term between twelve and twenty-four months. In general, monthly rental rates are determined by a number of factors including length of term, market demand, product availability and product type. Upon expiration of the initial term, or any extensions, rental rates are reviewed, and when appropriate, are adjusted based on current market conditions. Most rental agreements are operating leases that provide no purchase options, and when a rental agreement does provide the customer with a purchase option, it is generally on terms management believes to be attractive to Mobile Modular.
The customer is responsible for obtaining the necessary use permits and for the costs of insuring the unit, and is financially responsible for transporting the unit to the site, preparation of the site, installation of the unit, dismantle and return delivery of the unit to Mobile Modular, and certain costs for customization. Mobile Modular maintains the units in good working condition while on rent. Upon return, the units are inspected for damage and customers are billed for items considered beyond normal wear and tear. Generally, the units are then repaired for subsequent use. Repair and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred and can include floor repairs, roof maintenance, cleaning, painting and other cosmetic repairs. The costs of major refurbishment of equipment are capitalized to the extent the refurbishment significantly improves the quality and adds value or life to the equipment.
At December 31, 2020, Mobile Modular owned 56,880 new or previously rented modulars and portable storage containers with an aggregate cost of $882.1 million including accessories, or an average cost per unit of $15,508. Utilization is calculated at the end of each month by dividing the cost of rental equipment on rent by the total cost of rental equipment, excluding new equipment inventory and accessory equipment. At December 31, 2020, fleet utilization was 76.0% and average fleet utilization during 2020 was 77.2%. The Mobile Modular segment includes the results of operations of Mobile Modular Portable Storage, which represented approximately 8% of the Company’s 2020 total revenues.
Sales
In addition to operating its rental fleet, Mobile Modular sells modulars to customers. These sales typically arise out of its marketing efforts for the rental fleet and from existing equipment already on rent. Such sales can be of either new or used units from the rental fleet, which permits some turnover of older units. During 2020 Mobile Modular’s largest sale represented approximately 13% of Mobile Modular’s sales, 7% of the Company’s consolidated sales and 1% of the Company’s consolidated revenues.
Mobile Modular typically provides limited 90-day warranties on used modulars and passes through the manufacturers’ one-year warranty on new units to its customers. Warranty costs have not been significant to Mobile Modular’s operations to date, and the Company attributes this to its commitment to high quality standards and regular maintenance programs. However, there can be no assurance that warranty costs will continue to be insignificant to Mobile Modular’s operations in the future.
Enviroplex manufactures portable classrooms built to the requirements of the California Division of the State Architect (“DSA”) and sells directly to California public school districts and other educational institutions.
Seasonality
Typically, during each calendar year, our highest numbers of classrooms are shipped for rental and sale orders during the second and third quarters for delivery and installation prior to the start of the upcoming school year. The majority of classrooms shipped in the second and third quarters have rental start dates during the third quarter, thereby making the fourth quarter the first full quarter of rental revenues recognized for these transactions.
Competition
Competition in the rental and sale of relocatable modular buildings is intense. Some of our competitors in the modular building leasing industry, notably WillScot Corporation (which merged with Mobile Mini in July 2020), have a greater range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, and greater name recognition than we have. In addition, a number of other smaller companies operate regionally throughout the country. Mobile Modular operates primarily in California, Texas, Florida, Louisiana, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Virginia, Maryland and Washington, D.C. Significant competitive factors in the rental business include availability, price, service, reliability, appearance and functionality of the product. Mobile Modular markets high quality, well-constructed and attractive modulars. Part of the Company’s strategy for modulars is to create facilities and infrastructure capabilities that its competitors cannot easily duplicate. The Company's facilities and related infrastructure enable it to modify modulars efficiently and cost effectively to meet its customers’ needs. Management's goal is to be more responsive at less expense. Management believes this strategy, together with its emphasis on prompt and efficient customer service, gives Mobile Modular a competitive advantage. Mobile Modular is determined to respond quickly to requests for information, and provide experienced assistance for the first-time user, rapid delivery and timely repair of its modular units. Mobile Modular’s already high level of efficiency and responsiveness continues to improve as the Company upgrades procedures, processes and computer systems that control its internal operations. The Company anticipates intense competition to continue and believes it must continue to improve its products and services to remain competitive in the market for modulars.
Classroom Rentals and Sales to Public Schools (K-12)
Mobile Modular and Enviroplex provide classroom and specialty space needs serving public and private schools, colleges and universities. Within the educational market, the rental (by Mobile Modular) and sale (by Enviroplex and Mobile Modular) of modulars to public school districts for use as portable classrooms, restroom buildings and administrative offices for kindergarten through grade twelve (K-12) are a significant portion of the Company’s revenues. Mobile Modular rents and sells classrooms in California, Florida, Texas, Louisiana, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Maryland, Virginia and Washington, D.C. Enviroplex sells classrooms in the California market. California is Mobile Modular’s largest educational market. Historically, demand in this market has been fueled by shifting and fluctuating student populations, insufficient funding for new school construction, class size reduction programs, modernization of aging school facilities and the phasing out of portable classrooms no longer compliant with current building codes. The following table shows the approximate percentages of the Company’s modular rental and sales revenues, and of its consolidated rental and sales revenues for the past five years, that rentals and sales to these schools constitute:
Rentals and Sales to Public Schools (K-12) as a Percentage of Total Rental and Sales Revenues
Consolidated Rental and Sales Revenue percentage is calculated by dividing Modular rental and sales revenues to public schools (K-12) by the Company’s consolidated rental and sales revenues.
School Facility Funding
Funding for public school facilities is derived from a variety of sources including the passage of both statewide and local facility bond measures, operating budgets, developer fees, various taxes including parcel and sales taxes levied to support school operating budgets, and lottery funds. There is no certainty on the timing of the bond sales and it could take additional years before projects funded by these bonds generate meaningful demand for relocatable classrooms.
ELECTRONIC TEST EQUIPMENT
Description