The impairment review of the Company’s goodwill is performed by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying value to determine if the goodwill is impaired. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, then goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit were to exceed its fair value, then a goodwill impairment loss is recorded for the amount the reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value.
The Company conducted its annual impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of 2020. The impairment analysis did not result in an impairment charge for the fiscal year ended 2020. There were no impairment charges in 2019 or 2018. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. The Company based its fair value estimates on assumptions that it believes are reasonable but are uncertain and subject to changes in market conditions.
Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is computed as net income divided by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS is computed assuming conversion of all potentially dilutive securities including the dilutive effects of stock options, unvested restricted stock awards and other potentially dilutive securities. The table below presents the weighted-average common stock used to calculate basic and diluted earnings per share:
In 2020, 2019 and 2018, there were no shares having an anti-dilutive effect requiring exclusion from the computation of diluted earnings per share.
The Company has made purchases of shares of its common stock from time to time in over-the-counter market (NASDAQ) transactions, through privately negotiated, large block transactions and through a share repurchase plan, in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In August 2015, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to 2,000,000 shares of the Company's outstanding common stock (the “Repurchase Plan”). The amount and time of the specific repurchases are subject to prevailing market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors, including management’s discretion. All shares repurchased by the Company are canceled and returned to the status of authorized but unissued shares of common stock. There can be no assurance that any authorized shares will be repurchased and the Repurchase Plan may be modified, extended or terminated by the Board of Directors at any time. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, the company repurchased 282,221 shares of its common stock for an average purchase price of $48.25 per share or an aggregate price of $13.6 million. There were no repurchases of common stock during the twelve months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. As of December 31, 2020, 1,309,805 shares remain authorized for repurchase.
Accounts Receivable and Concentration of Credit Risk
The Company’s accounts receivable consist of amounts due from customers for rentals, sales, financed sales and unbilled amounts for the portion of modular building end-of-lease services earned, which were negotiated as part of the lease agreement. Unbilled receivables related to end-of-lease services, which consists of dismantle and return delivery of buildings, were $38.7 million at December 31, 2020 and $37.2 million at December 31, 2019. The Company sells primarily on 30-day terms, individually performs credit evaluation procedures on its customers on each transaction and will require security deposits from its customers when a significant credit risk is identified. The Company records an allowance for doubtful accounts in amounts equal to the estimated losses expected to be incurred in the collection of the accounts receivable. The estimated losses are based on historical collection experience in conjunction with an
evaluation of the current status of the existing accounts. Customer accounts are written off against the allowance for doubtful accounts when an account is determined to be uncollectable. The allowance for doubtful accounts activity was as follows:
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of trade accounts receivable. From time to time, the Company maintains cash balances in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation limits.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The Company believes that the carrying amounts for cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and notes payable approximate their fair values except for fixed rate debt included in notes payable which has an estimated fair value of $103.1 million and $101.4 million compared to the recorded value of $100.0 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The estimates of fair value of the Company’s fixed rate debt are based on the borrowing rates currently available to the Company for bank loans with similar terms and average maturities.
Foreign Currency Transactions and Translation
The Company's Canadian subsidiary, TRS-RenTelco Inc., a British Columbia corporation (“TRS-Canada”), functions as a branch sales office for TRS-RenTelco in Canada. The functional currency for TRS-Canada is the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses of TRS-Canada are reported in the results of operations in the period in which they occur.
The Company’s Indian subsidiary, TRS-RenTelco India Private Limited (“TRS-India”), functioned as a rental and sales office for TRS-RenTelco in India, which commenced its closure during 2017. The functional currency for TRS-India is the Indian Rupee. All assets and liabilities of TRS-India are translated into U.S. dollars at period-end exchange rates and all income statement amounts are translated at the average exchange rate for each month within the year.
Currently, the Company does not use derivative instruments to hedge its economic exposure with respect to assets, liabilities and firm commitments as the foreign currency transactions and risks to date have not been significant.
Share-Based Compensation
The Company measures and recognizes the compensation expense for all share-based awards made to employees and directors, including stock options, stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) and restricted stock units (“RSUs”), based upon estimated fair values. The fair value of stock options and SARs is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and for RSUs based upon the fair market value of the underlying shares of common stock as of the date of grant. The Company recognizes share-based compensation cost ratably on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which generally equals the vesting period. For performance-based RSUs, compensation costs are recognized when vesting conditions are met. In addition, the Company estimates the probable number of shares of common stock that will be earned and the corresponding compensation cost until the achievement of the performance goal is known. The Company recognizes forfeitures based on actual forfeitures when they occur. The Company records share-based compensation costs in “Selling and administrative expenses” in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company recognizes a benefit from share-based compensation in the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity if an incremental tax benefit is realized. Further information regarding share-based compensation can be found in “Note 8 -Benefit Plans”.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions in determining reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during each period presented. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The most significant estimates included in the financial statements are the future cash flows and fair values used to determine the recoverability of the rental equipment and identifiable definite lived intangible assets carrying value, the various assets’ useful lives and residual values, and the allowance for doubtful accounts.
NOTE 2. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
In December 2019, the FASB issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2019-12, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes, expected to reduce cost and complexity related to the accounting for income taxes. The ASU removes specific exceptions to the general principles in Topic 740 in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). It eliminates the need for an organization to analyze whether the following apply in a given period: exception to the incremental approach for intra-period tax allocation; exceptions to accounting for basis differences when there are ownership changes in foreign investments; and exception in interim period income tax accounting for year-to-date losses that exceed anticipated losses. The ASU also improves financial statement preparers’ application of income tax-related guidance and simplifies GAAP for: franchise taxes that are partially based on income; transactions with a government that result in a step up in the tax basis of goodwill; separate financial statements of legal entities that are not subject to tax; and enacted changes in tax laws in interim periods. For public business entities, this ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2020. The Company does not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
NOTE 3. IMPLEMENTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
Effective January 1, 2020, the Company adopted ASU 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment, intended to simplify the subsequent accounting for goodwill acquired in a business combination. Prior guidance required utilizing a two-step process to review goodwill for impairment. A second step was required if there was an indication that an impairment may exist, and the second step required calculating the potential impairment by comparing implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill with the carrying amount of the goodwill. The new guidance eliminates the second step from the goodwill impairment test. Under the new guidance, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An entity would recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's estimated fair value. The adoption of this new guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) effective January 1, 2020. Under the new guidance, companies are required to present financial assets held at amortized cost and available for sale debt securities net of the amount expected to be collected. The new guidance requires the measurement of expected credit losses to be based on relevant information from past events, including historical experiences, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect collectability. The adoption of this new guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
Trade accounts receivable
The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on the Company’s assessment of the collectability of customer accounts receivable from operating lease and non-lease revenues. The Company regularly reviews the allowance by considering factors such as historical payment experience and trends, the age of the accounts receivable balances, the Company’s operating segment, customer industry, credit quality and current economic conditions that may affect a customer’s ability to pay. The Company recognized bad debt expense of $1.3 million, $1.0 million and 0.6 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $2.1 million, $1.9 million and $1.9 million at December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Net investment in sales-type leases