section_1: ITEM 1.
BUSINESS.
General Overview
McGrath RentCorp (the “Company”) is a California corporation organized in 1979 with corporate offices located in Livermore, California. The Company’s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “MGRC”. References in this report to the “Company”, “we”, “us”, and “ours” refer to McGrath RentCorp and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise.
The Company is a diversified business-to-business rental company with four rental divisions: relocatable modular buildings, portable storage containers, electronic test equipment, and liquid and solid containment tanks and boxes. Although the Company’s primary emphasis is on equipment rentals, sales of equipment occur in the normal course of business. The Company is comprised of four reportable business segments: (1) its modular building and portable storage segment (“Mobile Modular”); (2) its electronic test equipment segment (“TRS-RenTelco”); (3) its containment solutions for the storage of hazardous and non-hazardous liquids and solids segment (“Adler Tanks”); and (4) its classroom manufacturing business selling modular buildings used primarily as classrooms in California (“Enviroplex”).
No single customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenues during 2020, 2019 and 2018. Revenue from foreign country customers accounted for 4%, 5% and 4% of the Company’s revenues in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Business Model
The Company invests capital in rental products and generally has recovered its original investment through rents less cash operating expenses in a relatively short period of time compared to the product’s rental life. When the Company’s rental products are sold, the proceeds generally have covered a high percentage of the original investment. With these characteristics, a significant base of rental assets on rent generates a considerable amount of operating cash flows to support continued rental asset growth. The Company’s rental products have the following characteristics:
•
The product required by the customer tends to be expensive compared to the Company’s monthly rental charge, with the interim rental solution typically evaluated as a less costly alternative.
•
Generally, we believe the Company’s customers have a short-term need for our rental products. The customer’s rental requirement may be driven by a number of factors including time, budget or capital constraints, future uncertainty impacting their ongoing requirements, equipment availability, specific project requirements, peak periods of demand or the customer may want to eliminate the burdens and risks of ownership.
•
All of the Company’s rental products have long useful lives relative to the typical rental term. Modular buildings (“modulars”) have an estimated life of eighteen years compared to the typical rental term of twelve to twenty-four months, electronic test equipment has an estimated life range of one to eight years (depending on the type of product) compared to a typical rental term of one to six months, and liquid and solid containment tanks and boxes have an estimated life of twenty years compared to typical rental terms of one to six months.
•
We believe short-term rental rates typically recover the Company’s original investment quickly based on the respective product’s annual yield, or annual rental revenues divided by the average cost of rental equipment. For modulars the original investment is recovered in approximately five years, in approximately three years for electronic test equipment and in approximately four years for liquid and solid containment tanks and boxes.
•
When a product is sold from our rental inventory, a significant portion of the original investment is usually recovered. Effective asset management is a critical element to each of the rental businesses and the residuals realized when product is sold from inventory. Modular asset management requires designing and building the product for a long life, coupled with ongoing repair and maintenance investments, to ensure its long useful rental life and generally higher residuals upon sale. Electronic test equipment asset management requires understanding, selecting and investing in equipment technologies that support market demand and, once invested, proactively managing the equipment at the model level for optimum utilization through its technology life cycle to maximize the rental revenues and residuals realized. Liquid and solid containment tanks and boxes asset management requires selecting and purchasing quality product and making ongoing repair and maintenance investments to ensure its long rental life.
The Company believes that rental revenue growth from an increasing base of rental assets and improved gross profits on rents are the best measures of the health of each of our rental businesses. Additionally, we believe our business model and results are enhanced by operational leverage that is created from large regional sales and inventory centers for modulars, a single U.S. based sales, inventory and operations facility for electronic test equipment, as well as shared senior management and back office functions for financing, human resources, insurance, marketing, information technology and operating and accounting systems.
Human Capital Management
As of December 31, 2020, the Company had 1,061 employees, of whom 94 were primarily administrative and executive personnel, with 575, 174, 133 and 85 in the operations of Mobile Modular, Adler Tanks, TRS-RenTelco and Enviroplex, respectively. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and management believes its relationship with our employees is good.
The Company believes its employees are key to its success and it is committed to all of its employees’ engagement, training and career development, and personal and professional growth. The Board of Directors also receives regular updates from senior management on matters relating to the Company’s strategy for the recruitment, retention and development of the Company’s employees. The Company provides training in technical, operational and managerial skills, and places special emphasis on safety, effective communications, customer service, and employee development. Additionally, the Company offers employees a tuition reimbursement program whereby the employee may receive reimbursement for tuition and fees for undergraduate or graduate level academic courses at an accredited two or four year college or university that may help employees improve performance in their current job or prepare them for advancement.
Government Regulations
We are subject to certain environmental, transportation, anti-corruption, import controls, health and safety and other laws and regulations in locations in which we operate. Our activity in jurisdictions in which we operate is additionally subject to anti-bribery laws and regulations, such as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, which prevent companies and their officers, employees and agents from making payments to officials and public entities of foreign countries to facilitate obtaining new contracts. We are also subject to laws and regulations that govern and impose liability for activities that may have adverse environmental effects, including discharges into air and water, and handling and disposal of hazardous substances and waste. Our motor vehicles and related units are subject to regulation in certain states under motor vehicle and similar registrations. While we incur costs in our business to comply with these laws and regulations, management does not believe that the costs of compliance with these various governmental regulations is material to our business and financial condition.
Available Information
We make the Company’s Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings available at our website www.mgrc.com. These filings include our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Act of 1934, which are available as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the SEC. Information included on
our website is not incorporated by reference to this Form 10-K. Furthermore, all reports the Company files with the SEC are available through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.
We have a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which applies to all directors, officers and employees. Copies of this code can be obtained at our website www.mgrc.com. Any waivers to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any amendments to such code applicable to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer or persons performing similar functions, will be posted on our web site.
RELOCATABLE MODULAR BUILDINGS
Description
Modulars are designed for use as classrooms, temporary offices adjacent to existing facilities, sales offices, construction field offices, restroom buildings, health care clinics, child care facilities, office space, and for a variety of other purposes and may be moved from one location to another. Modulars vary from simple single-unit construction site offices to multi-floor modular complexes. The Company’s modular rental fleet includes a full range of styles and sizes. The Company considers its modulars to be among the most attractive and well-designed available. The units are constructed with wood or metal siding, sturdily built and physically capable of a long useful life. Modulars are generally provided with installed heat, air conditioning, lighting, electrical outlets and floor covering, and may have customized interiors including partitioning, cabinetry and plumbing facilities.
Mobile Modular purchases new modulars from various manufacturers who build to Mobile Modular’s design specifications. During 2020, Mobile Modular purchased 45% of its modular units from one manufacturer. The Company believes that the loss of any of its primary modular manufacturers could have an adverse effect on its operations since Mobile Modular could experience higher prices and longer lead times for delivery of modular units until other manufacturers were able to increase their production capacity.
The Company’s modulars are manufactured to comply with state building codes, have a low risk of obsolescence, and can be modified or reconfigured to accommodate a wide variety of customer needs. Historically, as state building codes have changed over the years, Mobile Modular has been able to continue to use existing modulars, with minimal, if any, required upgrades. The Company has no assurance that it will continue to be able to use existing modular equipment with minimal upgrades as building codes change in the future.
Mobile Modular currently operates from regional sales and inventory centers in California, Texas, Florida, Georgia and Virginia, serving large geographic areas in these and surrounding states, and sales offices serving Louisiana, North Carolina and South Carolina. The regional sales and inventory centers have in-house infrastructure and operational capabilities to support quick and efficient repair, modification, and refurbishment of equipment for the next rental opportunity. The Company believes operating from large regional sales and inventory centers results in better operating margins as operating costs can be spread over a large installed customer base. Mobile Modular actively maintains and repairs its rental equipment, and management believes this ensures the continued use of the modular product over its long life and, when sold, has resulted in higher sale proceeds relative to its capitalized cost. When rental equipment returns from a customer, the necessary repairs and preventative maintenance are performed prior to its next rental. By making these expenditures for repair and maintenance throughout the equipment’s life we believe that older equipment can generally rent for rates similar to those of newer equipment. Management believes the condition of the equipment is a more significant factor in determining the rental rate and sale price than its age. Over the last three years, used equipment sold each year represented approximately 2% of rental equipment, and has been, on average, 15 years old with sale proceeds above its net book value.
Competitive Strengths
Market Leadership - The Company believes Mobile Modular is the largest supplier in California and Florida, and a significant supplier in Texas, of modular educational facilities for rental to both public and private schools. Management is knowledgeable about the needs of its educational customers and the related regulatory requirements in the states where Mobile Modular operates, which enables Mobile Modular to meet its customers’ specific project requirements.