The liquid and solid containment rental industry is highly competitive. We compete against national, regional and local companies, including United Rentals, Rain For Rent and Mobile Mini, all of which may be larger than we are, may offer a wider range of products and services and may have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Some of our competitors also have longer operating histories, lower cost basis of rental equipment and lower cost structures than we have. In addition, certain of our competitors are more geographically diverse than we are and have greater name recognition among customers than we do. As a result, our competitors that have these advantages may be better able to attract customers and provide their products and services at lower rental rates. Some competitors offer different approaches to liquid storage, such as large-volume modular tanks that may have better economics and compete with conventional frac tanks in certain oil and gas field applications. We may in the future encounter increased competition in the markets that we serve from existing competitors or from new market entrants. In July 2020, Wilscot acquired Mobile Mini and in July 2018, United Rentals, Inc. completed the acquisition of BakerCorp. Industry consolidation may create additional competition for customers and provide the combined entity access to greater financial resources than we have.
We believe that equipment quality, service levels, rental rates and fleet size are key competitive factors in the liquid and solid containment rental industry. From time to time, we or our competitors may attempt to compete aggressively by lowering rental rates or prices. Competitive pressures could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by decreasing our market share or depressing rental rates. To the extent we lower rental rates or increase our fleet in order to retain or increase market share, our operating margins would be adversely impacted. In addition, we may not be able to match a larger competitor’s price reductions or fleet investment because of its greater financial resources, all of which could adversely impact our operating results through a combination of a decrease in our market share, revenues and operating income.
Market risk, commodity price volatility, regulatory changes or interruptions and cyclical downturns in the industries using tanks and boxes may result in periods of low demand for our products resulting in excess inventory, impairment charges and reduction of our operating results and cash flows.
Adler Tanks’ revenues are derived from the rental of tanks and boxes to companies involved in oil and gas exploration, extraction and refinement, environmental remediation and wastewater/groundwater treatment, infrastructure and building construction and various industrial services, among others. We expect tank and box rental revenues will primarily be affected by the business activity within these industries. Historically, these industries have been cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns, which have a material adverse impact on the industry’s demand for equipment, including the tanks and boxes rented by us. Lower oil or gas prices may have an adverse effect on our liquid and solid containment tanks and boxes business. Any steep decline in both domestic and international oil and gas prices driven by materially higher supply levels and weak demand could have a significant negative impact on the industry’s demand for equipment, especially if such market conditions continue for an extended period of time. If the price reduction causes customers to limit or stop exploration, extraction or refinement activities, resulting in lower demand and pricing for renting Adler Tank’s products, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Also, a weak U.S. economy may negatively impact infrastructure construction and industrial activity. Any of these factors may result in excess inventory or impairment charges and reduce our operating results and cash flows.
Changes in regulatory, or governmental, oversight of hydraulic fracturing could materially adversely affect the demand for our rental products and reduce our operating results and cash flows.
We believe that demand related to hydraulic fracturing has increased the total rental revenues and market size in recent years. Oil and gas exploration and extraction (including use of tanks for hydraulic fracturing to obtain shale oil and shale gas) are subject to numerous local, state and federal regulations. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, oil and gas exploration and production accounted for approximately 7% of Adler Tanks’ rental revenues, and approximately 1% of the Company’s total revenues. The hydraulic fracturing method of extraction has come under scrutiny in several states and by the Federal government due to the potential adverse effects that hydraulic fracturing, and the liquids and chemicals used, may have on water quality and public health. In addition, the disposal of wastewater from the hydraulic fracturing process into injection wells may increase the rate of seismic activity near drill sites and could result in regulatory changes, delays or interruption of future activity. Changes in these regulations could limit, interrupt, or stop exploration and extraction activities, which would negatively impact the demand for our rental products. Finally, it is possible that changes in the technology utilized in hydraulic fracturing could make it less dependent on liquids and therefore lower the related requirements for the use of our rental products, which would reduce our operating results and cash flows.
Seasonality of the liquid and solid containment rental industry may impact quarterly results.
Rental activity may decline in the fourth quarter month of December and the first quarter months of January and February. These months may have lower rental activity in parts of the country where inclement weather may delay, or suspend, a company’s project. The impact of these delays may be to decrease the number of tanks, or boxes, on rent until companies are able to resume their projects when weather improves. These seasonal factors historically have impacted quarterly results in each year’s first and fourth quarter, but we are unable to predict how such factors may impact future periods.
Significant increases in raw material, fuel and labor costs could increase our acquisition and operating costs of rental equipment, which would increase operating costs and decrease profitability.
Increases in raw material costs such as steel and labor to manufacture liquid and solid containment tanks and boxes would increase the cost of acquiring new equipment. These price increases could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations if we are not able to recoup these increases through higher rental revenues. In addition, a significant amount of revenues are generated from the transport of rental equipment to and from customers. We own delivery trucks, employ drivers and utilize subcontractors to provide these services. The price of fuel can be unpredictable and beyond our control. During periods of rising fuel and labor costs, and in particular when prices increase rapidly, we may not be able recoup these costs from our customers, which would reduce our profitability.
We derive a meaningful amount of our revenue in our liquid and solid containment tank and boxes business from a limited number of customers, the loss of one or more of which could have an adverse effect on our business.
Periodically, a meaningful portion of our revenue in our liquid and solid containment tank and boxes business may be generated from a few major customers. Although we have some long-term relationships with our major customers, we cannot be assured that our customers will continue to use our products or services or that they will continue to do so at historical levels. The loss of any meaningful customer, the failure to collect a material receivable from a meaningful customer, any material reduction in orders by a meaningful customer or the cancellation of a meaningful customer order could significantly reduce our revenues and consequently harm our financial condition and our ability to fund our operations.
We may not be able to quickly redeploy equipment returning from leases at equivalent prices.
Many of our rental transactions are short-term in nature with pricing established on a daily basis. The length of time that a customer needs equipment can often be difficult to determine and can be impacted by a number of factors such as weather, customer funding and project delays. In addition, our equipment is primarily used in the oil and gas, industrial plant services, environmental remediation and infrastructure and building construction industries. Changes in the economic conditions facing any of those industries could result in a significant number of units returning off rent, both for us and our competitors.
If the supply of rental equipment available on the market significantly increases due to units coming off rent, demand for and pricing of our rental products could be adversely impacted. We may experience delays in remarketing our off-rent units to new customers and incur cost to move the units to other regions where demand is stronger. Actions in these circumstances by our competitors may also depress the market price for rental units. These delays and price pressures would adversely affect equipment utilization levels and total revenues, which would reduce our profitability.
ITEM 1B.
section_1B: ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
ITEM 2.
section_2: ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES.
The Company’s corporate and administrative offices are located in Livermore, California in approximately 26,000 square feet. The Company’s four reportable business segments currently conduct operations from the following locations:
Mobile Modular - Seven inventory centers, at which relocatable modular buildings and storage containers are displayed, refurbished and stored are located in Livermore, California (137 acres in the San Francisco Bay Area), Mira Loma, California (79 acres in the Los Angeles area), Pasadena, Texas (50 acres in the Houston area), in Grand Prairie, Texas (43 acres in the Dallas area), Auburndale, Florida (123 acres in the Orlando area), Arcade, Georgia (48 acres in the Atlanta area) and Fredericksburg, Virginia (68 acres in the Washington D.C. area). The inventory centers conduct rental and sales operations from modular buildings, serving as working models of the Company’s modular product. The Company also has a leased modular sales office in Charlotte, North Carolina from which the states of North Carolina and South Carolina are served.
TRS-RenTelco - Electronic test equipment rental and sales operations are conducted from a 117,000 square foot leased facility in Grapevine, Texas (Dallas area) and a sales office in Dollard-des-Ormeaux, Quebec (Montreal, Canada area).
Adler Tanks - Adler Tanks operates from branch offices serving the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, Southeast, Southwest and West. A number of our branch offices are leased and have remaining lease terms of one to three years, or are leased on a month to month basis. We believe satisfactory alternative properties can be found in all of our markets if we do not renew our existing leased properties.
Enviroplex - The Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Enviroplex, manufactures modular buildings used primarily as classrooms in California from its 108,000 square foot facility in Stockton, California (San Francisco Bay Area).
ITEM 3.
section_3: ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
The Company is involved in various lawsuits and routine claims arising out of the normal course of its business. The Company maintains insurance coverage for its operations and employees with appropriate aggregate, per occurrence and deductible limits as the Company reasonably determines necessary or prudent with current operations and historical experience. The major policies include coverage for property, general liability, auto, directors and officers, health, and workers’ compensation insurances. In the opinion of management, the ultimate amount of liability not covered by insurance, if any, under any pending litigation and claims, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or operating results of the Company.
ITEM 4.
section_4: ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.
Not Applicable
PART II
ITEM 5.
section_5: ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.