Various states that we operate enacted laws and constitutional amendments to provide funding for school districts to limit the number of students that may be grouped in a single classroom. School districts with class sizes in excess of state limits have been and continue to be a significant source of our demand for modular classrooms. In California, efforts to address aging infrastructure and deferred maintenance have resulted in modernization and reconstruction projects by public school districts including seismic retrofitting, asbestos abatement and various building repairs and upgrades, which has been another source of demand for our modular classrooms. The most recent economic recession caused state and local budget shortfalls, which reduced school districts’ funding and their ability to comply with state class size reduction requirements. If educational priorities and policies shift away from class-size reduction or modernization and reconstruction projects, demand and pricing for our products and services may decline, not grow as quickly as, or not reach the levels that we anticipate. Significant equipment returns may result in lower utilization until equipment can be redeployed or sold, which may cause rental rates to decline and negatively affect our revenues and operating income.
Failure to comply with applicable regulations could harm our business and financial condition, resulting in lower operating results and cash flows.
Similar to conventionally constructed buildings, the modular building industry, including the manufacturers and lessors of portable classrooms, are subject to regulations by multiple governmental agencies at the federal, state and local level relating to environmental, zoning, health, safety, energy efficiency, labor and transportation matters, among other matters. Failure to comply with these laws or regulations could impact our business or harm our reputation and result in higher capital or operating expenditures or the imposition of penalties or restrictions on our operations.
As with conventional construction, typically new codes and regulations are not retroactively applied. Nonetheless, new governmental regulations in these or other areas may increase our acquisition cost of new rental equipment, limit the use of or make obsolete some of our existing equipment, or increase our costs of rental operations.
Building codes are generally reviewed every three years. All aspects of a given code are subject to change including, but not limited to, such items as structural specifications for earthquake safety, energy efficiency and environmental standards, fire and life safety, transportation, lighting and noise limits.
Compliance with building codes and regulations entails a certain amount of risk as state and local government authorities do not necessarily interpret building codes and regulations in a consistent manner, particularly where applicable regulations may be unclear and subject to interpretation. These regulations often provide broad discretion to governmental authorities that oversee these matters, which can result in unanticipated delays or increases in the cost of compliance in particular markets. The construction and modular industries have developed many “best practices” which are constantly evolving. Some of our peers and competitors may adopt practices that are more or less stringent than the Company’s. When, and if, regulatory standards are clarified, the effect of the clarification may be to impose rules on our business and practices retroactively, at which time, we may not be in compliance with such regulations and we may be required to incur costly remediation. If we are unable to pass these increased costs on to our customers, our profitability, operating cash flows and financial condition could be negatively impacted.
Expansions of our modular operations into new markets may negatively affect our operating results.
In the past we have expanded our modular operations into new geographies and states. There are risks inherent in the undertaking of such expansion, including the risk of revenue from the business in any new markets not meeting our expectations, higher than expected costs in entering these new markets, risk associated with compliance with applicable state and local laws and regulations, response by competitors and unanticipated consequences of expansion. In addition, expansion into new markets may be affected by local economic and market conditions. Expansion of our operations into new markets will require a significant amount of attention from our management, a commitment of financial resources and will require us to add qualified management in these markets, which may negatively impact our operating results.
We are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts. These laws and regulations make these government contracts more favorable to government entities than other third parties and any changes in these laws and regulations, or our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our business.
We have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts such as clauses that allow government entities not to perform on contractual obligations in the case of a lack of fiscal funding. Also, in the educational markets we serve, we are able to utilize “piggyback” contracts in marketing our products and services
and ultimately to book business. The term “piggyback” contract refers to contracts for portable classrooms or other products entered into by public school districts following a formal bid process that allows for the use of the same contract terms and conditions with the successful vendor by other public school districts. As a result, “piggyback” contracts allow us to more readily book orders from our government customers, primarily public school districts, and to reduce the administrative expense associated with booking these orders. The governmental statutes and regulations that allow for use of “piggyback” contracts are subject to change or elimination in their entirety. A change in the manner of use or the elimination of “piggyback” contracts would likely negatively impact our ability to book new business from these government customers and could cause our administrative expenses related to processing these orders to increase significantly. In addition, any failure to comply with these laws and regulations might result in administrative penalties or even in the suspension of these contracts and as a result, the loss of the related revenues which would harm our business and results from operations.
Seasonality of our educational business may have adverse consequences for our business.
A significant portion of the modular sale and rental revenues is derived from the educational market. Typically, during each calendar year, our highest numbers of classrooms are shipped for rental and sale orders during the second and third quarters for delivery and installation prior to the start of the upcoming school year. The majority of classrooms shipped in the second and third quarters have rental start dates during the third quarter, thereby making the fourth quarter the first full quarter of rental revenues recognized for these transactions. Although this is the historical seasonality of our business, it is subject to change or may not meet our expectations, which may have adverse consequences for our business.
We face strong competition in our modular building markets and we may not be able to effectively compete.
The modular building leasing industry is highly competitive in our states of operation and we expect it to remain so. The competitive market in which we operate may prevent us from raising rental fees or sales prices to pass any increased costs on to our customers. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including equipment availability, quality, price, service, reliability, appearance, functionality and delivery terms. We may experience pricing pressures in our areas of operation in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.
Some of our competitors in the modular building leasing industry, notably WillScot Corporation, have a greater range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, and greater name recognition than we have. In August 2018, WillScot Corporation completed the acquisition of Modspace in August, 2018 and Mobile Mini in July, 2020. These combined competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the relocatable modular building market, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share, any of which could harm our business.
We may not be able to quickly redeploy modular units returning from leases, which could negatively affect our financial performance and our ability to expand, or utilize, our rental fleet.
As of December 31, 2020, 65% of our modular portfolio had equipment on rent for periods exceeding the original committed term. Generally, when a customer continues to rent the modular units beyond the contractual term, the equipment rents on a month-to-month basis. If a significant number of our rented modular units were returned during a short period of time, particularly those units that are rented on a month-to-month basis, a large supply of units would need to be remarketed. Our failure to effectively remarket a large influx of units returning from leases could negatively affect our financial performance and our ability to continue expanding our rental fleet. In addition, if returned units stay off rent for an extended period of time, we may incur additional costs to securely store and maintain them.
Significant increases in raw material and labor costs could increase our acquisition cost of new modular rental units and repair and maintenance costs of our fleet, which would increase our operating costs and harm our profitability.
We incur labor costs and purchase raw materials, including lumber, siding and roofing and other products to perform periodic repairs, modifications and refurbishments to maintain physical conditions of our modular units. The volume, timing and mix of maintenance and repair work on our rental equipment may vary quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. Generally, increases in labor and raw material costs will also increase the acquisition cost of new modular units and increase the repair and maintenance costs of our fleet. We also maintain a fleet of service trucks and use subcontractor companies for the delivery, set-up, return delivery and dismantle of modulars for our customers. We rely on our subcontractor service companies to meet customer demands for timely shipment and return, and the loss or inadequate number of subcontractor service companies may cause prices to increase, while negatively impacting our reputation and operating performance. During periods of rising prices for labor, raw materials or fuel, and in particular, when the prices increase rapidly or to levels significantly higher than normal, we may incur significant increases in our acquisition costs for new modular units and incur higher operating costs that we may not be able to recoup from our customers, which would reduce our profitability.
Failure by third parties to manufacture our products timely or properly may harm our reputation and financial condition.
We are dependent on third parties to manufacture our products even though we are able to purchase products from a variety of third-party suppliers. Mobile Modular purchases new modulars from various manufacturers who build to Mobile Modular’s design specifications. With the exception of Enviroplex, none of the principal suppliers are affiliated with the Company. During 2020, Mobile Modular purchased 45% of its modular product from one manufacturer. The Company believes that the loss of any of its primary manufacturers of modulars could have an adverse effect on its operations since Mobile Modular could experience higher prices and longer delivery lead times for modular product until other manufacturers were able to increase their production capacity.
Failure to properly design, manufacture, repair and maintain the modular product may result in impairment charges, potential litigation and reduction of our operating results and cash flows.