The Company's common stock is traded in the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “MGRC”. As of February 23, 2021, the Company's common stock was held by approximately 40 shareholders of record, which does not include shareholders whose shares are held in street or nominee name. The Company believes that when holders in street or nominee name are added, the number of holders of the Company's common stock exceeds 500.
Stock Repurchase Plan
The Company has in the past made purchases of shares of its common stock from time to time in over-the-counter market (NASDAQ) transactions, through privately negotiated, large block transactions and through a share repurchase plan, in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In August 2015, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase 2,000,000 shares of the Company's outstanding common stock (the “Repurchase Plan”). The amount and time of the specific repurchases are subject to prevailing market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors, including management’s discretion. All shares repurchased by the Company are canceled and returned to the status of authorized but unissued shares of common stock. There can be no assurance that any authorized shares will be repurchased and the repurchase program may be modified, extended or terminated by the Board of Directors at any time. There were 282,221 shares of common stock repurchased during the twelve months ended December 31, 2020 for the aggregate purchase price of $13.6 million or an average price of $48.25 per repurchased share. There were no repurchases of common stock during the fourth quarter 2020 and twelve months ended December 31, 2019. As of December 31, 2020, 1,309,805 shares remain authorized for repurchase under the Repurchase Plan.
ITEM 6.
section_6: ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
The following table summarizes the Company’s selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, 2020 and should be read in conjunction with the detailed audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and “Item 7.
section_7: ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in this section as well as those discussed under Part I, “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this document. This discussion should be read together with the financial statements and the related notes thereto set forth in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”
Results of Operations
General
The Company, incorporated in 1979, is a leading rental provider of relocatable modular buildings for classroom and office space, electronic test equipment for general purpose and communications needs, and liquid and solid containment tanks and boxes. The Company’s primary emphasis is on equipment rentals. The Company is comprised of four reportable business segments: (1) its modular building and portable storage container rental segment (“Mobile Modular”); (2) its electronic test equipment rental segment (“TRS-RenTelco”); (3) its containment solutions for the storage of hazardous and non-hazardous liquids and solids segment (“Adler Tanks”); and (4) its classroom manufacturing segment selling modular buildings used primarily as classrooms in California (“Enviroplex”). In 2020, Mobile Modular, TRS-RenTelco, Adler Tanks and Enviroplex contributed 62%, 26%, 6% and 6%, respectively, of the Company’s income before provision for taxes (the equivalent of “pre-tax income”), compared to 54%, 27%, 11% and 8%, respectively, for 2019.
The Company generates its revenues primarily from the rental of its equipment on operating leases with sales of equipment occurring in the normal course of business. The Company requires significant capital outlay to purchase its rental inventory and recovers its investment through rental and sales revenues. Rental revenue and certain other service revenues negotiated as part of the lease agreements with customers and related costs are recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the lease. Sales revenue and related costs are recognized upon delivery and installation of the equipment to the customers. Sales revenues are less predictable and can fluctuate from period to period depending on customer demands and requirements. Generally, rental revenues less cash operating costs recover the equipment’s capitalized cost in a shorter period of time relative to the equipment’s potential rental life and when sold, sale proceeds are usually above its net book value.
The Company’s rental operations include rental and rental related services revenues which comprised approximately 78% and 79% of the Company’s total revenues in 2020 and for the three years ended December 31, 2020, respectively. Over the past three years, modulars, electronic test equipment and tanks and boxes comprised approximately 55%, 24% and 21%, respectively, of the cumulative rental operations revenues. The Company’s direct costs of rental operations include depreciation of rental equipment, rental related service costs, impairment of rental equipment, and other direct costs of rental operations (which include direct labor, supplies, repairs, insurance, property taxes, license fees and amortization of certain lease costs).
The Company sells modular, electronic test equipment and liquid and solid containment tanks and boxes that are new, or previously rented. The Company’s Enviroplex subsidiary manufactures and sells modular classrooms. The renting and selling of some modular equipment requires a dealer’s license, which the Company has obtained from the appropriate governmental agencies. Sales and other revenues of modulars, electronic test equipment and tanks and boxes have comprised approximately 22% and 21% of the Company’s consolidated revenues in 2020 and for the three years ended December 31, 2020. Over the past three years, modulars, electronic test equipment and tanks and boxes comprised approximately 76%, 23% and 1% of sales and other revenues, respectively. The Company’s cost of sales includes the carrying value of the equipment sold and the direct costs associated with the equipment sold such as delivery, installation, modifications and related site work.
The rental and sale of modulars to public school districts comprised 23%, 25% and 24% of the Company’s consolidated rental and sales revenues for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. (For more information, see “Item 1. Business - Relocatable Modular Buildings - Classroom Rentals and Sales to Public Schools (K-12)” above.)
Selling and administrative expenses primarily include personnel and benefit costs, which includes share-based compensation, depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, bad debt expense, advertising costs, and professional service fees. The Company believes that sharing of common facilities, financing, senior management, and operating and accounting systems by all of the Company’s operations, results in an efficient use of overhead. Historically, the Company’s operating margins have been impacted favorably to the extent its costs and expenses are leveraged over a large installed customer base. However, there can be no assurance as to the Company’s ability to maintain a large installed customer base or ability to sustain its historical operating margins.
Recent Developments
Dividends
In February 2021, the Company announced that its Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.435 per common share for the quarter ending March 31, 2021, an increase of 4% over the prior year’s comparable quarter.
Credit Facility and Note Purchase Agreement
In March 2020, the Company renewed its $420 million credit facility with a syndicate of banks. The five-year facility matures on March 31, 2025 and replaced the Company’s existing $420 million line of credit. B of A Securities, Inc. served as Sole Bookrunner and Joint Lead Arranger. Bank of America, N.A. served as Administrative Agent, U.S. Bank National Association served as Joint Lead Arranger and Syndication Agent, and MUFG Union Bank N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. served as Syndication Agents.
In March 2020, the Company entered into an amended and restated $250 million note purchase and private shelf agreement with Prudential Private Capital (the “Note Purchase Agreement”). In addition to governing the terms of the current $40 million Series B Senior Notes and $60 million Series C Senior Notes outstanding, the Note Purchase Agreement allows for the issuance of up to an additional $150 million of senior notes on terms to be determined at such time that any additional notes are issued.
In October 2020, the Company entered into a rate lock agreement with Prudential Private Capital, pursuant to which, the Company agreed to a fixed interest rate of 2.57% for future issuance, if any, of senior unsecured notes in the aggregate amount of $40.0 million with a 7-year maturity. If issued, the funding for such notes would occur on or before March 17, 2021 and would be subject to the terms and conditions of the Note Purchase Agreement.
COVID-19
The outbreak of a new strain of coronavirus, COVID-19, which began in December 2019, has continued to spread globally including to every state in the United States. The Center for Disease Control (“CDC”) and World Health Organization (“WHO”) have recognized this outbreak as a pandemic, which has caused shutdowns to businesses and cities worldwide while disrupting supply chains, business operations, travel, consumer confidence and business sentiment. Each of the states in which the Company operates, and in some cases the localities as well, have previously issued orders requiring the closure of non-essential business and/or requiring residents to stay at home, however, currently none of the Company’s locations are required to be closed by local or state order. The Company is following guidelines established by the CDC and WHO and orders issued by state and local governments where the Company operates. The Company has taken a number of precautionary health and safety measures to safeguard its employees and customers, while maintaining business continuity to enable each of its operating segments and branch locations to continue providing services to customers identified as essential businesses under the relevant state and local rules. The Company has implemented remote work policies, restricted travel, separated work groups, enhanced cleaning and hygiene protocols in all of its facilities, products and vehicles, and requires distancing protocols for production and logistical personnel. The Company is continuing to monitor and assessing orders issued by federal, state and local governments to ensure compliance with evolving COVID-19 guidelines. The Company also continues to monitor the impact of COVID-19 on its existing customers who themselves may be impacted by governmental shutdowns and other impacts due to the governmental orders.
As of the date of this filing, significant uncertainty continues to exist concerning the magnitude of the impact and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic. While the Company's operating segments and branch locations currently continue to operate, the Company’s results of operations may be negatively impacted by project delays; early returns of equipment currently on rent with customers; overall decreased customer demand for new rental orders, rental related services and sales of new and used rental equipment; and payment delay, or non-payment, by customers who are significantly impacted by COVID-19. In light of the uncertain and rapidly evolving situation relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company has taken a number of precautionary measures to manage its resources conservatively by reducing and/or deferring non-essential capital expenditures and operating expenses to mitigate the adverse impact of the pandemic. The Company will continue to assess its capital expenditure needs against its cash availability during the crisis to make the most strategic decisions for its business. Furthermore, the Company believes that its recently renewed $420 million credit facility, coupled with its ability to access additional capital through the issuance of up to $150 million in additional senior notes, will strengthen the Company’s liquidity position and serve to mitigate some of the operational risk related to decreased customer demand for new rental orders and sales resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic.