We operate in a business that is characterized by intense competition. Our major competitors include large national hospitals that possess greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and significantly greater financial resources and employ substantially more personnel than we do. Many of our competitors have long established relationships. Although our hospitals operate in communities where they are currently the only general acute care hospital, they face substantial competition from other hospitals. Although these competing hospitals may be many miles away, patients in these markets may migrate to these competing hospitals as a result of local physician referrals, managed care plan incentives or personal choices. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with such entities in the future.
The healthcare business is intensely competitive both in terms of price and service. Pricing of services is often one of the most significant factors used by patients, health care providers and third-party payers in selecting a provider. As a result of the healthcare industry undergoing significant consolidation, larger providers are able to increase cost efficiencies. This consolidation results in greater price competition. We may be unable to increase cost efficiencies sufficiently, if at all, and as a result, our net earnings and cash flows could be negatively impacted by such price competition. We may also face competition from companies that do not comply with existing laws or regulations or otherwise disregard compliance standards in the industry. Additionally, we may also face changes in fee schedules, competitive bidding for services or other actions or pressures reducing payment schedules as a result of increased or additional competition. Additional competition, including price competition, could have a material adverse impact on our net revenues and profitability.
Failure to maintain the security of customer-related information or compliance with security requirements could damage the Company’s reputation with patients, and cause it to incur substantial additional costs and to become subject to litigation.
Pursuant to HIPAA and certain similar state laws, we must comply with comprehensive privacy and security standards with respect to the use and disclosure of protected health information. Under the HITECH amendments to HIPAA, HIPAA was expanded to require certain data breach notifications, to extend certain HIPAA privacy and security standards directly to business associates, to heighten penalties for noncompliance and to enhance enforcement efforts. If the Company does not comply with existing or new laws and regulations relating to protecting the privacy and security of personal or health information, it could be subject to monetary fines, civil penalties or criminal sanctions.
The Company receives certain personal and financial information about its patients. In addition, the Company depends upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. While we take reasonable and prudent steps to protect this information, a compromise in the Company’s security systems that results in patient personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons or the Company’s failure to comply with security requirements for financial transactions could adversely affect the Company’s reputation with its customers and others, as well as the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. It could also result in litigation against the Company or the imposition of penalties.
Failure of the Company to comply with emerging electronic transmission standards could adversely affect our business.
The failure of our IT systems to keep pace with technological advances may significantly reduce our revenues or increase our expenses. Public and private initiatives to create healthcare information technology (“HCIT”) standards and to mandate standardized clinical coding systems for the electronic exchange of clinical information could require costly modifications to our existing HCIT systems. While we do not expect HCIT standards to be adopted or implemented without adequate time to comply, if we fail to adopt or delay in implementing HCIT standards, we could lose customers and business opportunities.
Compliance with the HIPAA security regulations and privacy regulations may increase the Company’s costs.
The HIPAA privacy and security regulations, including the expanded requirements under HITECH, establish comprehensive federal standards with respect to the use and disclosure of protected health information by health plans, healthcare providers and healthcare clearinghouses, in addition to setting standards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and security of protected health information. The regulations establish a complex regulatory framework on a variety of subjects, including:
● the circumstances under which the use and disclosure of protected health information are permitted or required without a specific authorization by the patient, including but not limited to treatment purposes, activities to obtain payments for the Company’s services, and its healthcare operations activities;
● a patient’s rights to access, amend and receive an accounting of certain disclosures of protected health information;
● the content of notices of privacy practices for protected health information;
● administrative, technical and physical safeguards required of entities that use or receive protected health information; and
● the protection of computing systems maintaining Electronic Personal Health Information (“ePHI”).
The Company has implemented policies and procedures related to compliance with the HIPAA privacy and security regulations, as required by law. The privacy and security regulations establish a “floor” and do not supersede state laws that are more stringent. Therefore, the Company is required to comply with both federal privacy and security regulations and varying state privacy and security laws. In addition, for healthcare data transfers from other countries relating to citizens of those countries, the Company may also be required to comply with the laws of those other countries. The federal privacy regulations restrict the Company’s ability to use or disclose patient identifiable data, without patient authorization, for purposes other than payment, treatment or healthcare operations (as defined by HIPAA), except for disclosures for various public policy purposes and other permitted purposes outlined in the privacy regulations. HIPAA, as amended by HITECH, provides for significant fines and other penalties for wrongful use or disclosure of protected health information in violation of the privacy and security regulations, including potential civil and criminal fines and penalties. Due to the enactment of HITECH and an increase in the amount of monetary financial penalties, government enforcement has also increased. It is not possible to predict what the extent of the impact on business will be, other than heightened scrutiny and emphasis on compliance. If the Company does not comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to protecting the privacy and security of health information it could be subject to significant monetary fines, civil penalties or criminal sanctions. In addition, other federal and state laws that protect the privacy and security of patient information may be subject to enforcement and interpretations by various governmental authorities and courts resulting in complex compliance issues. For example, the Company could incur damages under state laws pursuant to an action brought by a private party for the wrongful use or disclosure of confidential health information or other private personal information.
Health care reform and related programs (e.g. Health Insurance Exchanges), changes in government payment and reimbursement systems, or changes in payer mix, including an increase in capitated reimbursement mechanisms and evolving delivery models, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues, profitability and cash flow.
Our services are billed to private patients, Medicare, Medicaid, commercial clients, managed care organizations (“MCOs”) and third-party insurance companies. Bills may be sent to different payers depending on the medical insurance benefits of a particular patient. Increases in the percentage of services billed to government and managed care payers could have an adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues.
A portion of the third-party insurance fee-for-service revenues are collectible from patients in the form of deductibles, copayments and coinsurance. As patient cost-sharing increases, collectability may be impacted.
In addition, Medicare and Medicaid and private insurers have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of health care services. Measures to regulate health care delivery have resulted in reduced prices, added costs and decreased utilization as well as increased complexity and new regulatory and administrative requirements. Changes to, or repeal of, the ACA, the health care reform legislation passed in 2010, also may continue to affect coverage, reimbursement and utilization of services, as well as administrative requirements, in ways that are currently unpredictable.
The Company expects efforts to impose reduced reimbursement, more stringent payment policies and utilization and cost controls by government and other payers to continue. If the Company cannot offset additional reductions in the payments it receives for its services by reducing costs, increasing the number of patients treated and/or introducing new procedures, it could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues, profitability and cash flows.
As an employer, health care reform legislation also contains numerous regulations that will require the Company to implement significant process and record keeping changes to be in compliance. These changes increase the cost of providing healthcare coverage to employees and their families. Given the limited release of regulations to guide compliance, as well as potential changes to or repeal of the ACA, the exact impact to employers including the Company is uncertain.
A failure to identify and successfully close and integrate strategic acquisition targets could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business objectives and its net revenues and profitability.
Part of the Company’s strategy involves deploying capital in investments that enhance the Company’s business, which includes pursuing strategic acquisitions to strengthen the Company’s capabilities and increase its presence in key geographic areas. However, the Company cannot assure that it will be able to identify acquisition targets that are attractive to the Company or that are of a large enough size to have a meaningful impact on the Company’s operating results. Furthermore, the successful closing and integration of a strategic acquisition entails numerous risks, including, among others:
● failure to obtain regulatory clearance;
● loss of key customers or employees;
● difficulty in consolidating redundant facilities and infrastructure and in standardizing information, including lack of complete integration;
● unidentified regulatory problems;
● failure to maintain the quality of services that such companies have historically provided;
● coordination of geographically-separated facilities and workforces; and
● diversion of management’s attention from the present core business of the Company.
The Company cannot assure that current or future acquisitions, if any, or any related integration efforts will be successful, or that the Company’s business will not be adversely affected by any future acquisitions, including with respect to net revenues and profitability. Even if the Company is able to successfully integrate the operations of businesses that it may acquire in the future, the Company may not be able to realize the benefits that it expects from such acquisitions.
Adverse results in material litigation matters or governmental inquiries could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business and financial condition.
The Company may become subject in the ordinary course of business to material legal action related to, among other things, intellectual property disputes, professional liability, contracts and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries and requests for information from governmental agencies and bodies and Medicare or Medicaid payors requesting comment and/or information on allegations of billing irregularities, billing and pricing arrangements, privacy practices and other matters that are brought to their attention through billing audits or third parties. The healthcare industry is subject to substantial Federal and state government regulation and audit. Legal actions could result in substantial monetary damages as well as damage to the Company’s reputation with customers, which could have a material adverse effect upon its business.
As a company with limited capital and human resources, we anticipate that more of management’s time and attention will be diverted from our business to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements than would be the case with a company that has well established controls and procedures. This diversion of management’s time and attention may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.