The following table provides information regarding the status of our existing equity compensation plans at December 31, 2020:
n/a - not applicable.
(1) See Note 14 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information about weighted average exercise prices.
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities
None.
Item 6.
section_6: Item 6. Selected Financial Data.
Not applicable.
Item 7.
section_7: Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1996. Such statements consist of any statement other than a recitation of historical fact and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend” or “estimate” or the negative thereof or other variations thereof or comparable terminology. The reader is cautioned that all forward-looking statements are speculative, and there are certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ from those referred to in such forward-looking statements (see Item 1A, “Risk Factors”).
COMPANY OVERVIEW
Medytox Solutions, Inc. (“Medytox”) was organized on July 20, 2005 under the laws of the State of Nevada. In the first half of 2011, Medytox’s management elected to reorganize as a holding company, and Medytox established and acquired a number of companies in the medical service and software sector between 2011 and 2014.
On November 2, 2015, pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 15, 2015, by and among CollabRx, Inc. (“CollabRx”), CollabRx Merger Sub, Inc. (“Merger Sub”), a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of CollabRx formed for the purpose of the merger, and Medytox, Merger Sub merged with and into Medytox, with Medytox as the surviving company and a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of CollabRx (the “Merger”). Prior to closing, the Company amended its certificate of incorporation to change its name to Rennova Health, Inc. This transaction was accounted for as a reverse merger in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) and, as such, the historical financial statements of Medytox became the historical financial statements of the Company.
Our Services
We are a healthcare enterprise that delivers products and services to our patients. We operate in one business segment: Hospital Operations.
On January 13, 2017, we closed on an asset purchase agreement to acquire certain assets related to Scott County Community Hospital, based in Oneida, Tennessee (the “Oneida Assets”). The Oneida Assets include a 52,000-square foot hospital building and 6,300 square foot professional building on approximately 4.3 acres. Scott County Community Hospital is classified as a Critical Access Hospital (rural) with 25 beds, a 24/7 emergency department, operating rooms and a laboratory that provides a range of diagnostic services. Scott County Community Hospital closed in July 2016 in connection with the bankruptcy filing of its parent company, Pioneer Health Services, Inc. We acquired the Oneida Assets out of bankruptcy for a purchase price of $1.0 million. The hospital, which has since been renamed Big South Fork Medical Center, became operational on August 8, 2017.
On January 31, 2018, the Company entered into an asset purchase agreement to acquire from Community Health Systems, Inc. certain assets related to an acute care hospital located in Jamestown, Tennessee, referred to as Jamestown Regional Medical Center. The purchase was completed on June 1, 2018 for a purchase price of $0.7 million. The hospital was acquired by a newly formed subsidiary, Jamestown TN Medical Center, Inc., and the hospital is an 85-bed facility of approximately 90,000 square feet on over eight acres of land, which offers a 24-hour Emergency Department with two spacious trauma bays and seven private exam rooms, inpatient and outpatient medical services and a Progressive Care Unit which provides telemetry services. The acquisition also included a separate physician practice known as Mountain View Physician Practice, Inc. Jamestown is located 38 miles west of Big South Fork Medical Center. The Company suspended operations at the hospital in June 2019, as a result of the termination of its Medicare agreement. The Company plans to reopen the hospital upon securing adequate capital to do so. The reopening plans have also been disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic and the timing of the reopening has been delayed and is now intended for mid-2021.
In addition, on March 5, 2019, we closed an asset purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) whereby we acquired certain assets related to an acute care hospital located in Jellico, Tennessee known as Jellico Community Hospital and an outpatient clinic located in Williamsburg, Kentucky known as CarePlus Center. The hospital and the clinic and their associated assets were acquired from Jellico Community Hospital, Inc. and CarePlus Rural Health Clinic, LLC, respectively. On March 1, 2021, the Company closed Jellico Community Hospital, after the City of Jellico issued a 30-day termination notice for the lease of the building. The Company does not expect this closure to have an adverse effect on its business strategy and believes it will have a positive impact from a reduced cash requirement in the immediate future.
Jellico Community Hospital was a 54-bed acute care facility that offered comprehensive services, including diagnostic imaging, radiology, surgery (general, gynecological and vascular), nuclear medicine, wound care and hyperbaric medicine, intensive care, emergency care and physical therapy. Jellico was located 33 miles east of our Big South Fork Medical Center. The CarePlus Center offers sophisticated testing capabilities and compassionate care, all in a modern, patient-friendly environment. Services include diagnostic imaging services, x-ray, mammography, bone densitometry, computed tomography (CT), ultrasound, physical therapy and laboratory services on a walk-in basis. The purchase price for the hospital and outpatient clinic was approximately $0.7 million. This purchase price was made available by Mr. Diamantis.
Our Hospital Operations generated net revenues of approximately $7.2 million and $15.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. During 2020 and 2019, based on collection history achieved, management recognized collection rates for our hospitals of approximately 14% and 14%, respectively. Going forward, we expect our Hospital Operations to provide us with a stable revenue base. In addition to the net revenues generated from our hospital operations, in 2019, we generated $75,460 of revenues related to non-hospital operations.
Discontinued Operations
Advanced Molecular Services Group and Health Technology Solutions, Inc.
On July 12, 2017, we announced plans to spin off our Advanced Molecular Services Group (“AMSG”) and in the third quarter 2017 our Board of Directors voted unanimously to spin off the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Health Technology Solutions, Inc. (“HTS”), as independent publicly traded companies by way of tax-free distributions to the Company’s stockholders. On June 10, 2020, the Company signed an agreement for the separation of these entities into a public company. The agreement with TPT Global Tech, Inc. (“TPT”) (OTC: TPTW), a California-based public company, was to merge HTS and AMSG into a public company after TPT completed a merger of its wholly-owned subsidiary, InnovaQor, Inc., with this public company. Rennova terminated its agreement with TPT on March 8, 2021 after numerous attempts to close the transaction as proposed failed due to uncertainty and last minute unviable demands from TPT that would have created a high risk to the future success of the project. Rennova is currently considering the actions of TPT with the belief that TPT acted outside of agreements that were in place and may have converted Rennova owned confidential information for their own benefit and business strategy. Rennova intends to pursue any remedy available to it under the law to recover money owed from TPT and to protect its technology and assets.
The Company continues to pursue options available to it to separate these entities and believes this can be accomplished in the second quarter of 2021. The strategic goal of this transaction is to create a separate public company which can focus on its own strengths and operational plans and create value for Rennova and its shareholders. The Company has reflected the amounts relating to AMSG and HTS (referred to as the AMSG & HTS Group) as a disposal group classified as held for sale and included in discontinued operations in the Company’s accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Clinical Diagnostics
Prior to our focus on hospital operations, our principal focus had been clinical laboratory blood and urine testing services, with a particular emphasis on the provision of urine drug toxicology testing to physicians, clinics and rehabilitation facilities in the United States. This sector has been fraught with difficulties over the past number of years as payers reduced reimbursement and coverage for diagnostics in this sector. The lack of consistency between payer’s policies and their requirement for proof of medical necessity created uncertainty for ordering physicians and testing laboratories and their ability to receive payment. During 2018, we reduced the number of laboratories we operated to one facility operated by EPIC Reference Labs, Inc. in Palm Beach County, Florida.
During the third quarter of 2020, we announced that we had reached a tentative agreement to sell our last clinical laboratory outside of its hospital labs, EPIC Reference Labs, Inc., to TPT and as a result, EPIC Reference Labs, Inc.’s operations have been classified as held for sale and included in discontinued operations in the Company’s accompanying consolidated financial statements. This proposed sale was terminated by Rennova on March 10, 2021, along with a lab management agreement and other permissions that had been granted by Rennova to TPT. Rennova is owed certain payments under the agreements and intends to take the necessary actions to secure payments owed by TPT.
Outlook
We believe that the transition of our business model from diagnostics to ownership of rural hospitals is now complete and once stabilized will create more predictable and stable revenue. Rural hospitals provide a much-needed service to their local communities and reduce our reliance on commission-based sales employees to generate sales. We currently operate one hospital and a rural clinic in the same general geographic location and we own another hospital and physician’s office at which operations are currently suspended. Owning a number of facilities in the same geographic location will create numerous efficiencies in purchasing and staffing and will enable the provision of additional, specialized and more valuable services that are needed by rural communities but cannot be sustained by a standalone rural hospital. We remain confident that this is a sustainable model we can continue to grow through acquisition and development and believe that we can benefit from the compliance and IT and software capabilities we already have in place. The progress of the COVID-19 pandemic, which is more fully discussed below, has severely affected our operations and may cause such expectations not to be achieved or, even if achieved, not to be done in the expected timeframe.
Impact of the Pandemic