We review our calculations for the realizability of gross service revenues monthly to make certain that we are properly allowing for the uncollectable portion of our gross billings and that our estimates remain sensitive to variances and changes within our payer groups. The contractual allowance calculation is made based on historical allowance rates for the various specific payer groups monthly with a greater weight being given to the most recent trends; this process is adjusted based on recent changes in underlying contract provisions. This calculation is routinely analyzed by us based on actual allowances issued by payers and the actual payments made to determine what adjustments, if any, are needed.
Our revenues generally relate to contracts with patients in which our performance obligations are to provide health care services to the patients. Revenues are recorded during the period our obligations to provide health care services are satisfied. Our performance obligations for inpatient services are generally satisfied over periods that average approximately five days, and revenues are recognized based on charges incurred in relation to total expected charges. Our performance obligations for outpatient services are generally satisfied over a period of less than one day. The contractual relationships with patients, in most cases, also involve a third-party payer (Medicare, Medicaid, managed care health plans and commercial insurance companies, including plans offered through the health insurance exchanges) and the transaction prices for the services provided are dependent upon the terms provided by (Medicare and Medicaid) or negotiated with (managed care health plans and commercial insurance companies) the third-party payers. The payment arrangements with third-party payers for the services we provide to the related patients typically specify payments at amounts less than our standard charges. Medicare generally pays for inpatient and outpatient services at prospectively determined rates based on clinical, diagnostic and other factors. Services provided to patients having Medicaid coverage are generally paid at prospectively determined rates per discharge, per identified service or per covered member. Agreements with commercial insurance carriers, managed care and preferred provider organizations generally provide for payments based upon predetermined rates per diagnosis, per diem rates or discounted fee-for-service rates. Management continually reviews the contractual estimation process to consider and incorporate updates to laws and regulations and the frequent changes in managed care contractual terms resulting from contract renegotiations and renewals. Our revenues are based upon the estimated amounts we expect to be entitled to receive from patients and third-party payers. Estimates of contractual allowances under managed care and commercial insurance plans are based upon the payment terms specified in the related contractual agreements. Revenues related to uninsured patients and uninsured copayment and deductible amounts for patients who have health care coverage may have discounts applied (uninsured discounts and contractual discounts). We also record estimated implicit price concessions (based primarily on historical collection experience) related to uninsured accounts to record self-pay revenues at the estimated amounts we expect to collect.
Laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs are complex and subject to interpretation. Estimated reimbursement amounts are adjusted in subsequent periods as cost reports are prepared and filed and as final settlements are determined (in relation to certain government programs, primarily Medicare, this is generally referred to as the “cost report” filing and settlement process). There were no adjustments to estimated Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement amounts and disproportionate-share funds related primarily to cost reports filed during 2020 and 2019.
The Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (“EMTALA”) requires any hospital participating in the Medicare program to conduct an appropriate medical screening examination of every person who presents to the hospital’s emergency room for treatment and, if the individual is suffering from an emergency medical condition, to either stabilize the condition or make an appropriate transfer of the individual to a facility able to handle the condition. The obligation to screen and stabilize emergency medical conditions exists regardless of an individual’s ability to pay for treatment. Federal and state laws and regulations require, and our commitment to providing quality patient care encourages, us to provide services to patients who are financially unable to pay for the health care services they receive. The federal poverty level is established by the federal government and is based on income and family size. The Company considers the poverty level in determining whether patients qualify for free or reduced cost of care. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts determined to qualify as charity care, they are not reported in revenues. We provide discounts to uninsured patients who do not qualify for Medicaid or charity care. In implementing the uninsured discount policy, we may first attempt to provide assistance to uninsured patients to help determine whether they may qualify for Medicaid, other federal or state assistance, or charity care. If an uninsured patient does not qualify for these programs, the uninsured discount is applied.
The collection of outstanding receivables for Medicare, Medicaid, managed care payers, other third-party payers and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. The primary collection risks relate to uninsured patient accounts, including patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. Implicit price concessions relate primarily to amounts due directly from patients. Estimated implicit price concessions are recorded for all uninsured accounts, regardless of the aging of those accounts. Accounts are written off when all reasonable internal and external collection efforts have been performed. The estimates for implicit price concessions are based upon management’s assessment of historical write offs and expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal, state and private employer health care coverage and other collection indicators. Management relies on the results of detailed reviews of historical write-offs and collections at facilities that represent a majority of our revenues and accounts receivable (the “hindsight analysis”) as a primary source of information in estimating the collectability of our accounts receivable. We perform the hindsight analysis quarterly, utilizing rolling twelve-months accounts receivable collection and write off data. We believe our quarterly updates to the estimated contractual allowance amounts at each of our hospital facilities provide reasonable estimates of our revenues and valuations of our accounts receivable. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, estimated contractual allowances of $45.5 million and $99.3 million, respectively, and bad debt of $7.1 million and $8.5 million, respectively, have been recorded as reductions to our accounts receivable balances to enable us to record our revenues and accounts receivable at the estimated amounts we expect to collect.
To quantify the total impact of the trends related to uninsured accounts, we believe it is beneficial to view total uncompensated care, which is comprised of charity care, uninsured discounts and implicit price concessions. Total uncompensated care as a percentage of gross revenues was 1.42% and 7% for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Contractual Allowances and Doubtful Accounts Policy
Accounts receivable are reported at realizable value, net of allowances for credits and doubtful accounts, which are estimated and recorded in the period the related revenue is recorded. The Company has a standardized approach to estimating and reviewing the collectability of its receivables based on a number of factors, including the period they have been outstanding. Historical collection and payer reimbursement experience is an integral part of the estimation process related to allowances for contractual credits and doubtful accounts. In addition, the Company regularly assesses the state of its billing operations in order to identify issues which may impact the collectability of these receivables or reserve estimates. Receivables deemed to be uncollectible are charged against the allowance for doubtful accounts at the time such receivables are written-off. Recoveries of receivables previously written-off are recorded as credits to the allowance for doubtful accounts. Revisions to the allowances for doubtful accounts estimates are recorded as an adjustment to provision for bad debts. As required by Topic 606, for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, after bad debt and contractual and related allowance adjustments to revenues of $52.6 million and $107.8 million, respectively, we reported net revenues of $7.2 million and $16.0 million. We continue to review the provision for bad debt and contractual and related allowances. See Note 4 - Accounts Receivable.
Leases, Including the Adoption of ASU No. 2016-02
We adopted ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which requires leases with durations greater than 12 months to be recognized on the balance sheet, effective January 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective approach. Prior period financial statement amounts and disclosures have not been adjusted to reflect the provisions of the new standard. We elected the package of transition provisions available which allowed us to carryforward our historical assessments of (1) whether contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification and (3) initial direct costs. We lease property and equipment under finance and operating leases. For leases with terms greater than 12 months, we record the related right-of-use assets and right-of-use obligations at the present value of lease payments over the term. We do not separate lease and non-lease components of contracts. Our operating and finance leases are more fully discussed in Note 11.
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
The Company accounts for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets according to the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) ASC Topic 360, Property, Plant and Equipment (“ASC 360”). ASC 360 clarifies the accounting for the impairment of long-lived assets and for long-lived assets to be disposed of, including the disposal of business segments and major lines of business. Long-lived assets are reviewed when facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. When necessary, impaired assets are written down to estimated fair value based on the best information available. Estimated fair value is generally based on either appraised value or measured by discounting estimated future cash flows. Considerable management judgment is necessary to estimate discounted future cash flows. Accordingly, actual results could vary significantly from such estimates. The Company recorded the impairment of an intangible asset of $250,000 during 2020 as more fully discussed in Note 6. The Company did not record an asset impairment charge during 2019.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Fair Value, Including the Adoption of ASU 2017-11
In July 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-11 “Earnings Per Share (Topic 260) Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (Topic 480) Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” The amendments in Part I of this Update change the classification analysis of certain equity-linked financial instruments (or embedded features) with down round features. When determining whether certain financial instruments should be classified as liabilities or equity instruments, a down round feature no longer precludes equity classification when assessing whether the instrument is indexed to an entity’s own stock. The amendments also clarify existing disclosure requirements for equity-classified instruments. As a result, a freestanding equity-linked financial instrument (or embedded conversion option) no longer would be accounted for as a derivative liability at fair value as a result of the existence of a down round feature. For freestanding equity classified financial instruments, the amendments require entities that present earnings per share (EPS) in accordance with Topic 260 to recognize the effect of the down round feature when it is triggered. That effect is treated as a dividend and as a reduction of income available to common shareholders in basic EPS. Convertible instruments with embedded conversion options that have down round features are now subject to the specialized guidance for contingent beneficial conversion features (in Subtopic 470-20, Debt-Debt with Conversion and Other Options), including related EPS guidance (in Topic 260).