Our acquisitions to date do not provide assurance that the acquired operations will be accretive to our earnings or otherwise improve our results of operations.
Acquisitions, such as those completed and planned involve the integration of previously separate businesses into a common enterprise in which it is envisioned that synergistic operations will result in improved financial performance. However, realization of these envisioned results is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to:
● Diversion of management time and attention from daily operations;
● Difficulties integrating the acquired business, technologies and personnel into our business;
● Potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of the acquired business; and
● Exposure to unforeseen liabilities of the acquired business
There is no assurance that the acquisitions of the Big South Fork Medical Center, Jamestown Regional Medical Center or CarePlus Center will be accretive to our earnings or otherwise improve our results of operations. The Company suspended operations at Jamestown Regional Medical Center in June 2019, as a result of the termination of its Medicare agreement. The Company plans to reopen the hospital upon securing adequate capital to do so. The reopening plans have also been disrupted by COVID-19 pandemic and the timing of the reopening has been delayed and is now intended for mid-2021.
On March 1, 2021, the Company closed Jellico Community Hospital after the City of Jellico issued a 30-day termination notice for the lease of the building. This closure is not expected to have a negative impact on the current position of the business or the longer-term business strategy.
We have decided to alter our business model to focus on hospital acquisition and development which may not succeed if we are unable to effectively compete for patients. Local residents could use other hospitals and healthcare providers.
The healthcare industry is highly competitive among hospitals and other healthcare providers for patients, affiliations with physicians and acquisitions. The most significant competition our hospitals face comes from hospitals that provide more complex services as well as other healthcare providers, including outpatient surgery, orthopedic, oncology and diagnostic centers that also compete for patients. Our hospitals, our competitors, and other healthcare industry participants are increasingly implementing physician alignment strategies, such as acquiring physician practice groups, employing physicians and participating in accountable care organizations (ACOs) or other clinical integration models, which may impact our competitive position. In addition, increasing consolidation within the payor industry, vertical integration efforts involving payors and healthcare providers, and cost-reduction strategies by large employer groups and their affiliates may impact our ability to contract with payors on favorable terms and otherwise affect our competitive position.
We expect these competitive trends to continue. If we are unable to compete effectively with other hospitals and other healthcare providers, local residents may seek healthcare services at providers other than our hospitals and affiliated businesses.
Our results of operations may be adversely affected if the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“ACA”) is repealed, replaced or otherwise changed.
The ACA has increased the number of people with health care insurance. It also has reduced Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements. Numerous proposals continue to be discussed to repeal, amend or replace the law. We cannot predict whether any such repeal, amend or replace proposals, or any parts of them, will become law and, if they do, what their substance or timing will be. There is uncertainty whether, when and how the ACA may be changed, what alternative provisions, if any, will be enacted, the timing of enactment and implementation of any alternative provisions and the impact of any alternative provisions on providers as well as other healthcare industry participants. Efforts to repeal or change the ACA or implement other initiatives intended to reform healthcare delivery and financial systems may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
The industry trend towards value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues.
There is a trend in the healthcare industry toward “value-based” purchasing of healthcare services. These value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. Governmental programs including Medicare and Medicaid currently require providers under such programs to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. In addition, Medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events. Many large commercial payors currently require providers under such programs to report quality data and several commercial payors do not reimburse providers under such programs for certain preventable adverse events.
We expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. We are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations.
General economic conditions.
Much healthcare spending is discretionary and can be significantly impacted by economic downturns. When patients are experiencing personal financial difficulties or have concerns about general economic conditions, they may choose to defer or forego elective surgeries and other non-emergent procedures, which are generally more profitable lines of business for hospitals. In addition, employers may impose or patients may select a high-deductible insurance plan or no insurance at all, which increases a hospital’s dependence on self-pay revenue. Moreover, a greater number of uninsured patients may seek care in our emergency rooms.
We are unable to quantify the specific impact of current or recent economic conditions on our business, however, we believe that the economic conditions in the service areas in which our hospitals operate may have an adverse impact on our operations. Such impact can be expected to continue to affect not only the healthcare decisions of our patients and potential patients but could also have an adverse impact on the solvency of certain managed care providers and other counterparties to transactions with us.
Healthcare plans have taken steps to control the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services.
We also face efforts by non-governmental third-party payers, including healthcare plans, to reduce utilization and reimbursement for healthcare services.
The healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among healthcare insurance plans and payers, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers. These healthcare plans, and independent physician associations, may demand that providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing services to their members through capped payment arrangements. There are also an increasing number of patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing.
The increased consolidation among healthcare plans and payers increases the potential adverse impact of not being, or ceasing to be, a contracted provider with any such insurer. The ACA includes provisions, including ones regarding the creation of healthcare exchanges, which may encourage healthcare insurance plans to increase exclusive contracting.
We expect continuing efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of services. These efforts, including future changes in third-party payer rules, practices and policies or ceasing to be a contracted provider to many healthcare plans, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our business.
Unless we raise sufficient funds, we will not be able to succeed in our business model.
During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, we have relied on issuances of equity, debentures and notes payable, loans from a former member of our Board of Directors and the sale of accounts receivable under sales agreements to fund our operations. We generated negative cash flow from operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. If this trend were to continue and we are unable to raise sufficient capital to fund our operations through other sources, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to continue as a going concern (see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, “Liquidity and Capital Resources”). There can be no assurances that we will be able to raise sufficient funds on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, to fund our operations under our current business model.
Some of our operations are subject to federal and state laws prohibiting “kickbacks” and other laws designed to prohibit payments for referrals and eliminate healthcare fraud.
Federal and state anti-kickback and similar laws prohibit payment, or offers of payment, in exchange for referrals of products and services for which reimbursement may be made by Medicare or other federal and state healthcare programs. Some state laws contain similar prohibitions that apply without regard to the payer of reimbursement for the services. Under a federal statute, known as the “Stark Law” or “self-referral” prohibition, physicians, subject to certain exceptions, are prohibited from referring their Medicare or Medicaid program patients to providers with which the physicians or their immediate family members have a financial relationship, and the providers are prohibited from billing for services rendered in violation of Stark Law referral prohibitions. Violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Law and Stark Law may be punished by civil and criminal penalties, and/or exclusion from participation in federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. States may impose similar penalties. The ACA significantly strengthened provisions of the Federal False Claims Act and Anti-Kickback Law provisions, and other health care fraud provisions, leading to the possibility of greatly increased qui tam suits by private citizen “relators” for perceived violations of these laws. There can be no assurance that our activities will not come under the scrutiny of regulators and other government authorities or that our practices will not be found to violate applicable laws, rules and regulations or prompt lawsuits by private citizen relators under federal or state false claims laws.
Federal officials responsible for administering and enforcing the healthcare laws and regulations have made a priority of eliminating healthcare fraud. For example, the ACA includes significant new fraud and abuse measures, including required disclosures of financial arrangements with physician customers, lower thresholds for violations and increased potential penalties for violations. Federal funding available for combating health care fraud and abuse generally has increased. While we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, many of the laws and regulations applicable to our business, particularly those relating to billing and reimbursement of services and those relating to relationships with physicians, hospitals and patients, contain language that has not been interpreted by courts. We must rely on our interpretation of these laws and regulations based on the advice of our counsel and regulatory or law enforcement authorities may not agree with our interpretation of these laws and regulations and may seek to enforce legal remedies or penalties against us for violations.
From time to time we may need to change our operations, particularly pricing or billing practices, in response to changing interpretations of these laws and regulations, or regulatory or judicial determinations with respect to these laws and regulations. These occurrences, regardless of their outcome, could damage our reputation and harm important business relationships that we have with healthcare providers, payers and others. Furthermore, if a regulatory or judicial authority finds that we have not complied with applicable laws and regulations, we would be required to refund amounts that were billed and collected in violation of such laws and regulations. In addition, we may voluntarily refund amounts that were alleged to have been billed and collected in violation of applicable laws and regulations. In either case, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could harm our operating results and financial condition.