We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and certain of our financing agreements, while outstanding, prohibit us from declaring or paying cash dividends without approval which may not be granted. In addition, we anticipate that we will retain our earnings, if any, for future growth and therefore do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our stockholders will not realize a return on their investment unless the trading price of our common stock appreciates, which is uncertain and unpredictable.
We may use our stock to pay, to a large extent, for future acquisitions or for the repayment of debt, which would be dilutive to investors.
We may choose to use additional stock to pay, to a large extent, for future acquisitions or for the repayment of debt, and believe that doing so will enable us to retain a greater percentage of our operating capital to pay for operations and marketing. Price and volume fluctuations in our stock might negatively impact our ability to effectively use our stock to pay for acquisitions, or could cause us to offer stock as consideration for acquisitions on terms that are not favorable to us and our stockholders. If we did resort to issuing stock in lieu of cash for acquisitions or the repayment of debt under unfavorable circumstances, it would result in increased dilution to investors.
The success of our hospitals depends upon their ability to maintain good relationships with physicians and, if a hospital is unable to successfully maintain good relationships with physicians, admissions and outpatient revenues may decrease and operating performance could decline.
Because physicians generally direct the majority of hospital admissions and outpatient services, a hospital’s success is, in part, dependent upon the number and quality of physicians on the medical staffs, the admissions and referrals practices of the physicians and the ability to maintain good relations with physicians. If one or more of our hospitals is unable to successfully maintain good relationships with physicians, admissions may decrease and operating performance could decline.
Our hospital operations are dependent on the local economies and the surrounding areas in which they operate. A significant deterioration in those economies could cause a material adverse effect on our hospitals’ businesses.
Each rural hospital operations is dependent upon the local economy where it is located. A significant deterioration in that economy would negatively impact the demand for the hospital’s services, as well as the ability of patients and other payers to pay for service as rendered.
On June 1, 2018, we acquired certain assets related to our Jamestown Regional Medical Center. This hospital is 38 miles west of our Big South Fork Medical Center. On March 5, 2019, we acquired certain assets related to Jellico Community Hospital and CarePlus Center. Jellico Community Hospital was 33 miles east of our Big South Fork Medical Center and CarePlus is nearby in Kentucky. Although the Company believes the synergies of management and services in a close geographic location will create numerous efficiencies for the Company, it has exposed the Company to a much greater degree to the effects of the economy in that one area. The Company suspended operations at Jamestown Regional Medical Center in June 2019, as a result of the termination of its Medicare agreement. The Company plans to reopen the hospital upon securing adequate capital to do so. The reopening plans have also been disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic and the timing of the reopening has been delayed and is now intended for mid-2021.
On March 1, 2021, the Company closed Jellico Community Hospital after the City of Jellico issued a 30-day termination notice for the lease of the building.
Our revenues are concentrated in Tennessee, which makes us particularly sensitive to changes in that state.
Our revenues are particularly sensitive to regulatory and economic changes in the State of Tennessee. Any change in the current demographic, economic, competitive or regulatory conditions in the state could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes to the Medicaid program or other health care laws or regulations in that state could also have an adverse effect.
Our common stock is subject to substantial dilution by exercises of warrants and conversions or exercises of other securities into common stock.
The Company has outstanding options, warrants, convertible preferred stock and convertible debentures. Exercise of the options and warrants, and conversions of the convertible preferred stock and debentures could result in substantial dilution of our common stock and a decline in its market price. In addition, the terms of certain of the warrants, convertible preferred stock and convertible debentures issued by us provide for reductions in the per share exercise prices of the warrants and the per share conversion prices of the debentures and preferred stock (if applicable and subject to a floor in certain cases), in the event that we issue common stock or common stock equivalents (as that term is defined in the agreements) at an effective exercise/conversion price that is less than the then exercise/conversion prices of the outstanding warrants, preferred stock or debentures, as the case may be. These provisions, as well as the issuances of debentures and preferred stock with conversion prices that vary based upon the price of our common stock on the date of conversion, have resulted in significant dilution of our common stock and have given rise to reverse splits of our common stock.
The following table presents the dilutive effect of our various potential common shares as of December 31, 2020:
Continued conversions and exercises of the Company’s outstanding securities into common stock have further depressed the market price of our common stock and have caused corresponding decreases of the exercise and conversion prices of much of the remaining convertible securities due to their anti-dilution provisions. As of March 31, 2021, the total dilutive potential common shares, including outstanding common stock, was 25.9 billion shares.
The sale of a substantial amount of our common stock, including resale of the shares of common stock issuable upon the conversions of preferred stock and convertible debentures and the exercise of the outstanding warrants in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock.
Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the market value of our other securities.
In the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities convertible into common stock in connection with a financing, acquisition, litigation settlement, employee arrangement, or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and could cause our stock price to decline.
Item 1B.
section_1B: Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
Not applicable.
Item 2.
section_2: Item 2. Properties
The table below summarizes certain information as to our principal facilities as of March 31, 2021:
Location
Purpose
Type of Occupancy
West Palm Beach, Florida(1)
Corporate office
Leased through June 30, 2023
Oneida, Tennessee(2)
Medical Facility and Laboratory
Owned
Jamestown, Tennessee(2)
Medical Facility
Owned
Jellico Community Hospital(2)(3)
Medical Facility
Lease terminated by the landlord on March 1, 2021
CarePlus Center(2)
Medical Facility
As long as center remains in location
(1) Corporate Operations
(2) Hospital Operations
(3) On March 1, 2021, the Company closed Jellico Community Hospital after the City of Jellico, Tennessee issued a 30-day termination notice for the lease of the building.
The Company leases its Corporate offices, which are located in West Palm Beach, Florida. The Company vacated the premises in June 2019 and had not paid certain amounts due under the lease. The lease term was set to expire on February 29, 2020 in accordance with its term. In July 2019, the landlord of received a judgment in the amount of approximately $413,000 in connection with failure to pay under an office lease. In June 2020, the Company reached a settlement with the landlord and paid $0.3 million in full satisfaction of the settlement. On June 19, 2020, the Company entered into new Corporate office lease with the same landlord.
The table below summarizes certain information as to facilities used by our discontinued operations as of March 31, 2021:
Location
Purpose
Type of Occupancy
Riviera Beach, Florida(1)
Offices
December 2021
(1) EPIC Reference Labs, Inc. - Discontinued operations.
We believe that each of our facilities as presently equipped has the production capacity for its currently foreseeable level of operations.
Item 3.
section_3: Item 3. Legal Proceedings
From time to time, the Company may be involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings related to contractual disputes, employment matters, regulatory and compliance matters, intellectual property rights and other litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry which may inherently lend itself to legal matters. Management is aware that litigation has associated costs and that results of adverse litigation verdicts could have a material effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. The Company’s policy is to expense legal fees and expenses incurred in connection with the legal proceedings in the period in which the expense is incurred. Management, in consultation with legal counsel, has addressed known assertions and predicted unasserted claims below.
Biohealth Medical Laboratory, Inc. and PB Laboratories, LLC (the “Companies”) filed suit against CIGNA Health in 2015 alleging that CIGNA failed to pay claims for laboratory services the Companies provided to patients pursuant to CIGNA - issued and CIGNA - administered plans. In 2016, the U.S. District Court dismissed part of the Companies’ claims for lack of standing. The Companies appealed that decision to the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals, which in late 2017 reversed the District Court’s decision and found that the Companies have standing to raise claims arising out of traditional insurance plans as well as self-funded plans. In July 2019, the Companies and EPIC Reference Labs, Inc. filed suit against CIGNA Health for failure to pay claims for laboratory services provided. Cigna Health, in turn, sued for improper billing practices. CIGNA’s case against the Company was dismissed on June 22, 2020. The suit remains ongoing but because the Company did not have the financial resources to see the legal action to conclusion it assigned the benefit, if any, from the suit to Christopher Diamantis for his assumption of the costs to carry the cost to conclusion.
In November of 2016, the IRS commenced an audit of the Company’s 2015 Federal tax return. Based upon the audit results and additional carryback adjustments, the Company made provisions of approximately $1.0 million as a liability and approximately $0.9 million as a receivable in its financial statements. During 2020, the Company received $0.6 million of income tax refunds. During the first quarter of 2020, the U.S. Congress approved the CARES Act, which allows a five-year carryback privilege for federal net operating tax losses that arose in a tax year beginning in 2018 and through the current tax year, that is, 2020. As a result, during the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded approximately $1.1 million in refunds from the carryback of certain of its federal net operating losses. Income taxes are more fully discussed in Note 15 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
On September 27, 2016, a tax warrant was issued against the Company by the Florida Department of Revenue (the “DOR”) for unpaid 2014 state income taxes in the approximate amount of $0.9 million, including penalties and interest. The Company entered into a Stipulation Agreement with the DOR allowing the Company to make monthly installments until July 2019. The Company has made payments to reduce the amount owed. The Company intends to renegotiate another Stipulation agreement. However, there can be no assurance the Company will be successful. The balance accrued of approximately $0.4 million remained outstanding to the DOR at December 31, 2020.