The Federal False Claims Act prohibits providers from, among other things, knowingly submitting false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government. The False Claims Act defines the term “knowingly” broadly, and while simple negligence generally will not give rise to liability, submitting a claim with reckless disregard to its truth or falsity can constitute the “knowing” submission of a false or fraudulent claim for the purposes of the False Claims Act. The “qui tam” or “whistleblower” provisions of the False Claims Act allow private individuals to bring actions under the False Claims Act on behalf of the government. These private parties are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government, and, as a result, the number of “whistleblower” lawsuits that have been filed against providers has increased significantly in recent years. When a private party brings a qui tam action under the False Claims Act, the defendant will generally not be aware of the lawsuit until the government makes a determination whether it will intervene and take a lead in the litigation. If a provider is found to be liable under the False Claims Act, the provider may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government plus mandatory civil monetary penalties for each separate false claim. The government has used the False Claims Act to prosecute Medicare and other government healthcare program fraud such as coding errors, billing for services not provided, submitting false cost reports, and providing care that is not medically necessary or that is substandard in quality.
HIPAA Transaction, Privacy and Security Requirements
HIPAA and federal regulations issued pursuant to HIPAA contain, among other measures, provisions that have required the Company to implement modified or new computer systems, employee training programs and business procedures. The federal regulations are intended to encourage electronic commerce in the healthcare industry, provide for the confidentiality and privacy of patient healthcare information and ensure the security of healthcare information.
A violation of the HIPAA regulations could result in civil money penalties per standard violated. HIPAA also provides for criminal penalties and one year in prison for knowingly and improperly obtaining or disclosing protected health information, up to five years in prison for obtaining protected health information under false pretenses and up to ten years in prison for obtaining or disclosing protected health information with the intent to sell, transfer or use such information for commercial advantage, personal gain or malicious harm. Since there is limited history of enforcement efforts by the federal government at this time, it is difficult to ascertain the likelihood of enforcement efforts in connection with the HIPAA regulations or the potential for fines and penalties, which may result from any violation of the regulations.
HIPAA Privacy Regulations
HIPAA privacy regulations protect the privacy of individually identifiable health information. The regulations provide increased patient control over medical records, mandate substantial financial penalties for violation of a patient’s right to privacy and, with a few exceptions, require that an individual’s individually identifiable health information only be used for healthcare-related purposes. These privacy standards apply to all health plans, all healthcare clearinghouses and all healthcare providers, such as our hospitals, that transmit health information in an electronic form in connection with standard transactions, and apply to individually identifiable information held or disclosed by a covered entity in any form. These standards impose extensive administrative requirements on our hospitals and require compliance with rules governing the use and disclosure of such health information, and they require our facilities to impose these rules, by contract, on any business associate to whom we disclose such information in order to perform functions on our behalf. In addition, our hospitals are subject to any state laws that are more restrictive than the privacy regulations issued under HIPAA. These laws vary by state and could impose stricter standards and additional penalties.
The HIPAA privacy regulations also require healthcare providers to implement and enforce privacy policies to ensure compliance with the regulations and standards. We believe all of our facilities are in compliance with current HIPAA privacy regulations.
HIPAA Electronic Data Standards
The Administrative Simplification Provisions of HIPAA require the use of uniform electronic data transmission standards for all healthcare related electronic data interchange. These provisions are intended to streamline and encourage electronic commerce in the healthcare industry. Among other things, these provisions require us to use standard data formats and code sets established by HHS when electronically transmitting information in connection with certain transactions, including health claims and equivalent encounter information, healthcare payment and remittance advice and health claim status.
The HHS regulations establish electronic data transmission standards that all healthcare providers and payors must use when submitting and receiving certain electronic healthcare transactions. The uniform data transmission standards are designed to enable healthcare providers to exchange billing and payment information directly with the many payors thereby eliminating data clearinghouses and simplifying the interface programs necessary to perform this function. We believe that our management information systems comply with HIPAA’s electronic data regulations and standards.
HIPAA Security Standards
The Administrative Simplification Provisions of HIPAA require the use of a series of security standards for the protection of electronic health information. The HIPAA security standards rule specifies a series of administrative, technical and physical security procedures for covered entities to use to assure the confidentiality of electronic protected health information. The standards are delineated into either required or addressable implementation specifications. We believe we are in compliance with all the aspects of the HIPAA security regulations.
HIPAA National Provider Identifier
HIPAA also required HHS to issue regulations establishing standard unique health identifiers for individuals, employers, health plans and healthcare providers to be used in connection with standard electronic transactions. All healthcare providers, including our hospitals, were required to obtain a new National Provider Identifier (“NPI”) to be used in standard transactions instead of other numerical identifiers by May 23, 2007. Our hospitals implemented use of a standard unique healthcare identifier by utilizing their employer identification number. HHS has not yet issued proposed rules that establish the standard for unique health identifiers for health plans or individuals. Once these regulations are issued in final form, we expect to have approximately one to two years to become fully compliant, but cannot predict the impact of such changes at this time. We cannot predict whether our facilities may experience payment delays during the transition to the new identifiers. HHS is currently working on the standards for identifiers for health plans; however, there are currently no proposed timelines for issuance of proposed or final rules. The issuance of proposed rules for individuals is on hold indefinitely.
Medical Waste Regulations
Our operations, especially our hospitals, generate medical waste that must be disposed of in compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations. Our operations are also generally subject to various other environmental laws, rules and regulations. Based on our current level of operations, we do not anticipate that such compliance costs will have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations.
Compliance Program
The Company continuously evaluates and monitors its compliance with all Medicare, Medicaid and other rules and regulations. The objective of the Company’s compliance program is to develop, implement and update compliance safeguards as necessary. Emphasis is placed on developing and implementing compliance policies and guidelines, personnel training programs and various monitoring and audit procedures to attempt to achieve implementation of all applicable rules and regulations.
The Company seeks to conduct its business in compliance with all statutes, regulations, and other requirements applicable to its operations. The health care industry is, however, subject to extensive regulation, and many of these statutes and regulations have not been interpreted by the courts. There can be no assurance that applicable statutes and regulations will not be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that would adversely affect the Company. Potential sanctions for violation of these statutes and regulations include significant civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusions from participation in government health care programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations, necessary to operate as well as potential liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.
Professional Liability
As part of our business, our hospitals are subject to claims of liability for events occurring in the ordinary course of operations. To cover a portion of these claims, professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance are maintained in amounts which are commercially available and believed to be sufficient for operations as currently conducted, although some claims may exceed the scope or amount of the coverage in effect.
Environmental Regulation
We believe we are in substantial compliance with applicable federal, state and local environmental regulations. To date, compliance with federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of material into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment have not had a material effect upon our results of operations, financial condition or competitive position. Similarly, we have not had to make material capital expenditures to comply with such regulations.
Payment for Services
In each of 2020 and 2019, the Company’s Hospital Operations derived over 42% and 56% of their net sales directly from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The Company’s Hospital Operations depend significantly on continued participation in these programs and in other government healthcare programs. In recent years, both governmental and private sector payers have made efforts to contain or reduce health care costs, including reducing reimbursement for services.
Following an inspection at Jamestown Regional Medical Center on February 5, 2019, the hospital was informed on February 15 that several conditions of participation in its Medicare agreement were deficient. The hospital was informed that if the deficiencies were not corrected by May 16 the Medicare agreement would terminate. A follow-up inspection on May 15 resulted in the determination that the hospital had failed to adequately correct the deficiencies highlighted and a notice of involuntary termination was issued that was effective on June 12, 2019. A significant percentage of patients at Jamestown Regional Medical Center are covered by Medicare and without any ability to get paid for these services the Company suspended operations at the hospital. On June 10, 2019 the Company hired a new CEO to oversee the reopening of the hospital and took steps to re-enter the Medicare program. The Company plans to reopen the hospital upon securing adequate capital to do so. The reopening has also been disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic and the timing of the reopening has been delayed.
Further healthcare reform could occur in 2021, including changes to the Affordable Care Act and Medicare reform, initiatives to address surprise billing and increased price transparency, as well as administrative requirements that may affect coverage, reimbursement and utilization of our hospitals and laboratory in ways that are currently unpredictable.
Employees
As of March 15, 2021, we have 93 employees for our continuing operations, of which 63 are full time. Of our total employees from continuing operations, 3 are assigned to corporate administration and 90 are assigned to our Hospital Operations. In addition, we have 91 employees associated with our discontinued operations, including 86 that were still employed on March 15, 2021 and that were associated with Jellico Community Hospital, which was closed on March 1, 2021. We continue to adjust our number of employees to achieve efficiencies and cost savings where applicable.
Available Information