The Company received Provider Relief Funds from the United States Department of HHS provided to eligible healthcare providers out of the $100 billion Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund provided for in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”). The funds were allocated to eligible healthcare providers for expenses and lost revenue attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic. The funds were being released in tranches, and HHS partnered with UnitedHealth Group to distribute the initial $30 billion in funds by direct deposit to providers. As of December 31, 2020, Company-owned facilities have received approximately $12.5 million in relief funds. This included approximately $120,000 received by Jamestown Medical Center, Inc. where staff continue to be employed and remain engaged in the provision of healthcare services that qualify for relief. The fund payments are grants, not loans, and HHS will not require repayment, but providers are restricted and the funds must be used only for grant approved purposes. Based on an analysis of the compliance and reporting requirements of the Provider Relief Funds and the impact of the pandemic on our operating results through December 31, 2020, we recognized $8.0 million of these payments as income in 2020. The income has been recorded under the caption “Other income (expense)” and the unrecognized portion has been recorded in accrued liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. The Company’s assessment of whether the terms and conditions for amounts received have been met considers all frequently asked questions and other interpretive guidance issued by HHS. On September 19, 2020, HHS issued a Post-Payment Notice of Reporting Requirements (the “September 19, 2020 Notice”), which indicates that providers may recognize reimbursement for healthcare-related expenses, as defined therein, attributable to coronavirus that another source has not reimbursed and is not obligated to reimburse. Additionally, amounts received from the HHS that are not fully expended on eligible healthcare-related expenses may be recognized as reimbursement for lost revenues, represented as a negative change in year-over-year net patient care operating income. Providers may apply payments to lost revenues up to the amount of the 2019 net gain from healthcare-related sources or, for entities that reported a negative net operating gain in 2019, receipts from the HHS may be recognized up to a net zero gain/loss in 2020. On October 22, 2020, HHS issued an updated Post-Payment Notice of Reporting Requirements and a Reporting Requirements Policy Update (together, the “October 22, 2020 Notice”), which includes two primary changes: (1) the definition of lost revenue is changed to refer to the negative year-over-year difference in 2019 and 2020 actual revenue from patient care related sources as opposed to the negative year-over-year change in net patient care operating income, and (2) the definition of reporting entities is broadened to include the parent of one or more subsidiary tax identification numbers that received general distribution payments, entities having providers associated with it that provide diagnoses, testing or treatment for cases of COVID-19, or entities that can otherwise attest to the terms and conditions. As codified in the October 22, 2020 Notice, the Company’s estimate of pandemic relief funds as of December 31, 2020 includes the allocation of certain general funds among subsidiaries. Regarding the amended definition of lost revenues, such change served to increase amounts eligible to be recognized as income, as compared to the September 19, 2020 Notice. Provider Relief Funds received through HHS that have not yet been recognized as income or otherwise have not been refunded to HHS as of December 31, 2020, are reflected within accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets, and such unrecognized amounts may be recognized as income in future periods if the underlying conditions for recognition are met. As evidenced by the October 22, 2020 Notice, HHS’ interpretation of the underlying terms and conditions of such payments, including auditing and reporting requirements, continues to evolve. On January 15, 2021, the government issued “General and Targeted Distribution Post-Payment Notice of Reporting Requirements,” (the “January 15, 2021 Notice”), which again provides guidance on reporting instructions and use of funds. Additional guidance or new and amended interpretations of existing guidance on the terms and conditions of such payments may result in changes in the Company’s estimate of amounts for which the terms and conditions are reasonably assured of being met, and any such changes may be material. Additionally, any such changes may result in the Company’s inability to recognize additional Provider Relief Fund payments or may result in the derecognition of amounts previously recognized, which (in any such case) may be material.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company’s estimate of the amount for which it is reasonably assured of meeting the underlying terms and conditions was updated based on, among other things, the September 19, 2020 Notice, the October 22, 2020 Notice, the January 15, 2021 Notice and the Company’s results of operations during 2020. Taking into account these countervailing factors, the Company believes that the amount recognized as of December 31, 2020 of approximately $8.0 million remains an appropriate estimate.
Going Concern
Under ASU 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements-Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40) (“Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 205-40”), the Company has the responsibility to evaluate whether conditions and/or events raise substantial doubt about its ability to meet its future financial obligations as they become due within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. As required by ASC 205-40, this evaluation shall initially not take into consideration the potential mitigating effects of plans that have not been fully implemented as of the date the financial statements are issued. Management has assessed the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in accordance with the requirement of ASC 205-40.
As reflected in the consolidated financial statements, the Company had a working capital deficit and an accumulated deficit of $56.5 million and $868.5 million, respectively, at December 31, 2020. In addition, the Company had a loss from continuing operations of approximately $17.6 million and cash used in operating activities of $16.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. As of the date of this report, our cash is deficient and payments for our operations in the ordinary course are not being made. The continued losses and other related factors, including the payment defaults under the terms of outstanding notes payable and debentures as more discussed in Notes 8 and 9, raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern for twelve months from the filing date of this report.
The Company’s consolidated financial statements are prepared assuming the Company can continue as a going concern, which contemplates continuity of operations through realization of assets, and the settling of liabilities in the normal course of business. The Company plans to separate out its Advanced Molecular Services Group (“AMSG”) and Health Technology Solutions, Inc. (“HTS”), as independent publicly traded companies in either a spin off or transaction with a publicly quoted company. In accordance with ASC 205-20 and having met the criteria for “held for sale”, the Company has reflected amounts relating to AMSG and HTS as disposal groups classified as held for sale and included as part of discontinued operations. AMSG and HTS are no longer included in the segment reporting following the reclassification to discontinued operations. The discontinued operations of AMSG and HTS are described further in Note 17.
In addition, during 2020, the Company announced plans to sell its last clinical laboratory, EPIC Reference Labs, Inc., and as a result, EPIC Reference Labs, Inc.’s operations have been classified as held for sale and included in discontinued operations for all periods presented, as more fully discussed in Note 17.
On March 1, 2021, the Company closed Jellico Community Hospital, after the City of Jellico issued a 30-day termination notice for the lease of the building. Jellico Community Hospital had been operating at a loss since it was acquired by the Company in March 2019. The Company’s core operating businesses are now a rural hospital, a physician’s office, CarePlus Center and a hospital that it plans to reopen and operate, which is a specialized marketplace with a requirement for capable and knowledgeable management. The Company’s current financial condition may make it difficult to attract and maintain adequate expertise in its management team to successfully operate these businesses.
There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to achieve its business plan, which is to acquire and operate clusters of rural hospitals, raise any additional capital or secure the additional financing necessary to implement its current operating plan. The ability of the Company to continue as a going concern is dependent upon its ability to raise adequate capital to fund its operations and repay its outstanding debentures and other past due obligations, fully align its operating costs, increase its revenues, and eventually regain profitable operations. The accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if the Company is unable to continue as a going concern.
Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Presentation and Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and in accordance with Regulation S-X of the SEC. The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Rennova Health, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant inter-company balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Comprehensive Loss
During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, comprehensive loss was equal to the net loss amounts presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant estimates and assumptions include the estimates of fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations, including hospital acquisitions, reserves, contractual allowances and write-downs related to receivables, the recoverability of long-lived assets, stock based compensation, the valuation allowance relating to the Company’s deferred tax assets, valuation of equity and derivative instruments, income from HHS Provider Relief Funds, deemed dividends and debt discounts, among others. Actual results could differ from those estimates and would impact future results of operations and cash flows.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The Company considers all highly liquid temporary cash investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. The Company had minimal cash equivalents at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Revenue Recognition
We recognize revenue in accordance with ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606),” including subsequently issued updates. This series of comprehensive guidance has replaced all existing revenue recognition guidance. There is a five-step approach outlined in the standard. In determining revenue, we first identify the contract according to the scope of ASU Topic 606 with the following criteria:
● The parties have approved the contract either in writing; orally by acknowledgement; or implicitly, based on customary business practices.
● Each party’s rights and the contract’s payment terms are identified.
● The contract has commercial substance.
● Collection is probable.
Under the accounting guidance, we no longer present the provision for doubtful accounts as a separate line item and our revenues are presented net of estimated contract and related allowances. We also do not present “allowances for doubtful accounts” on our consolidated balance sheets.