In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement. This standard will require entities to disclose the amount of total gains or losses for the period recognized in other comprehensive income that is attributable to fair value changes in assets and liabilities held as of the balance sheet date and categorized within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. This ASU became effective for us on January 1, 2020. The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract. Under this standard customers will apply the same criteria for capitalizing implementation costs as they would for an arrangement that has a software license. The adoption of this new guidance prescribes the balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow classification of the capitalized implementation costs and related amortization expense, and additional quantitative and qualitative disclosures. This ASU will be effective for us for annual and interim periods beginning on December 31, 2020. Early adoption of this standard is permitted and may be applied either prospectively to eligible costs incurred on or after the date of the new guidance or retrospectively. We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.
In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-12, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes. The new guidance simplifies the accounting for income taxes by removing certain exceptions to the general principles and also simplifies areas such as franchise taxes, step-up in tax basis goodwill, separate entity financial statements and interim recognition of enactment of tax laws or rate changes. This standard will be effective for us for annual periods beginning on January 1, 2021, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption of this standard is permitted, including adoption of all amendments in any interim period for which financial statements have not yet been issued. We are evaluating the impact of adopting this new accounting guidance on our consolidated financial statements.
In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-06, Debt-Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging-Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40).The new guidance provides accounting for convertible instruments and contracts in an entity’s own equity. The FASB issued this Update to address issues identified as a result of the complexity associated with applying U.S. GAAP for certain financial instruments with characteristics of liabilities and equity. The Board focused on amending the guidance on convertible instruments and the guidance on the derivatives scope exception for contracts in an entity’s own equity. This standard will be effective for us for annual periods beginning on January 1, 2024, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption of this standard is not permitted for us because we have already adopted ASU 2017-11 “Earnings Per Share (Topic 260) Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (Topic 480) Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” We have not yet determined the impact of adopting this new accounting guidance on our consolidated financial statements.
Other recent accounting standards issued by the FASB, including its Emerging Issues Task Force, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and the SEC did not or are not believed by management to have a material impact on the Company’s present or future consolidated financial statements.
Note 20 - Subsequent Events
Conversions of Series N Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock
Subsequent to December 31, 2020 and through March 31, 2021, the Company issued 435,082,000 shares of its common stock upon conversions of 4,177.52 shares of its Series N Preferred Stock with a stated value of $4.2 million.
Potential Common Stock as of March 31, 2021
The following table presents the dilutive effect of our various potential common shares as of March 31, 2021:
On August 13, 2020, Mr. Diamantis entered into the Voting Agreement with the Company, Mr. Lagan and Alcimede LLC (of which Mr. Lagan is the sole manager) pursuant to which Mr. Diamantis granted an irrevocable proxy to Mr. Lagan to vote the Series M Preferred Stock held by Mr. Diamantis, Mr. Diamantis has retained all other rights under the Series M Preferred Stock. Regardless of the number of shares of Series M Preferred Stock outstanding and so long as at least one share of Series M Preferred Stock is outstanding, the outstanding shares of Series M Preferred Stock shall have the number of votes, in the aggregate, equal to 51% of all votes entitled to be voted at any meeting of stockholders or action by written consent. This means that the holders of Series M Preferred Stock have sufficient votes, by themselves, to approve or defeat any proposal voted on by the Company’s stockholders, unless there is a supermajority required under applicable law or by agreement.
As a result of the Voting Agreement, as of the date of filing this report, the Company believes that it has the ability to ensure that it has and or can obtain sufficient authorized shares of its common stock to cover all potentially dilutive common shares outstanding.
Jellico Community Hospital Closure
On March 1, 2021, the Company closed Jellico Community Hospital, after the City of Jellico issued a 30-day termination notice for the lease of the building. It is expected that Jellico’s property and equipment will be transferred to the Company’s other medical facilities. The value of its intangible asset, which was a certificate of need valued at $250,000, was recorded as an asset impairment in the year ended December 31, 2020. There may be other costs and expenses associated with the closure of Jellico and, if so determined, any such amounts will be recorded as charges/expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2021.
AMSG & HTS Group
On March 5 2021, Rennova terminated discussions with TPT to merge its AMSG & HTS Group into InnovaQor. The parties had worked for a number of months to close on an agreement that was previously announced but unfortunately could not reach final terms on a number of closing items. TPT has on March 23 2021 changed the name of InnovaQor, Inc. to TPT Strategic, Inc. Rennova continues to consider other options for the separation of this group and expects to complete a transaction in the second quarter of 2021 to have it separated and trade under the InnovaQor name.
EPIC Reference Labs, Inc.
On March 10, 2021, Rennova terminated an agreement that it had entered into with TPT on August 6, 2020 for the purchase and sale of EPIC Reference Labs, Inc. The Company also terminated an Interim Management Agreement with TPT entered into on Aug 6, 2020 granting TPT an exclusive right and responsibility to undertake certain management and financial responsibility of EPIC Reference Labs, Inc., on our behalf and terminated all rights and approvals granted under letters dated November 2, 2020 and November 24, 2020 in reference to the Quicklab Application in partnership with EPIC Reference Labs, Inc.. Rennova intends to pursue whatever legal action necessary against TPT and TPT Medtech, LLC to recover money and damages owed from the breach of these agreements by TPT and to stop TPT from all activities that utilize or have been derived from their access to and use of Rennova owned confidential information.
Funding activities
On February 25, 2021, the Company entered into agreement with certain institutional investors for warrant prepayment promissory notes (the “February 25 Notes”) to the value of $550,000. The Company received proceeds of $500,000 from the Payees who may at their option apply all or any portion of the principle amount outstanding to the exercise of any common stock purchase warrants of the Company held by Payee. The February 25 Notes are unsecured and the maturity date of the February 25 Notes is twelve months from issuance. The February 25 Notes do not bear interest but an interest rate of 18% will be applied to the outstanding principle commencing 5 days after any event of default that results in the acceleration of the February 25 Notes.
On April 9 2021, the Company entered into agreement with certain institutional investors for warrant prepayment promissory notes (the “April 9 Notes”) to the value of $165,000. The Company received proceeds of $150,000 from the Payees who may at their option apply all or any portion of the principle amount outstanding to the exercise of any common stock purchase warrants of the Company held by Payee. The April 9 Notes are unsecured and the maturity date of the April 9 Notes is twelve months from issuance. The April 9 Notes do not bear interest but an interest rate of 18% will be applied to the outstanding principle commencing 5 days after any event of default that results in the acceleration of the April 9 Notes.
Item 9.
section_9: Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
None.
Item 9A.
section_9A: Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
In connection with the preparation of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, an evaluation was carried out by the Company’s management, with the participation of the chief executive officer, who also functions as our interim chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”)) as of December 31, 2020. Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the chief executive officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
Based on that evaluation, the Company’s management concluded, as of the end of the period covered by this report, that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) were not effective as of December 31, 2020 because of the material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting discussed in Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, presented below.
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
The management of the Company is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and related financial information appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The financial statements and notes have been prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP. The management of the Company is also responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act. A company’s internal control over financial reporting is defined as a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:
● Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;
● Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and
● Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.