We settled several legal proceedings during the year ended December 31, 2020, which resulted in a net gain from legal settlements of $0.7 million. The settlement of obligations under a financing lease for property and equipment resulted in $0.9 million of the gain and we recorded $0.2 million in gains from other settlements. Partially offsetting the gains from legal settlements was a $0.4 million loss from a potential legal settlement related to a lawsuit by certain employees against the Company.
Gain on Bargain Purchase
In the year ended December 31, 2019, we realized a $0.3 million gain on the bargain purchase of Jellico Community Hospital, which was acquired on March 5, 2019. The gain was associated with the intangible asset acquired in the acquisition.
Gain on Extinguishment of Debt
We recorded a $2.0 million gain on extinguishment of debt in the year ended December 31, 2020, which resulted from the Exchange, Redemption and Forbearance Agreement (the “Exchange and Redemption Agreement”) that we entered into on August 31, 2020. Under the Exchange and Redemption Agreement, stock and debentures and associated accrued interest were exchanged for shares of the Company’s Series N Preferred Stock. The Exchange and Redemption Agreement is more fully discussed below under the heading Liquidity and Capital Resources and in Notes 9, 13 and 14 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Change in Fair Value of Derivative Instrument
The change in the fair value of derivative instrument for the year ended December 31, 2019 of $0.1 million resulted from a late payment penalty, which increased the principal amount of a debenture that contains a conversion feature indexed to the Company’s common stock.
Interest Expense
Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $9.8 million compared to $21.7 million in 2019. Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 included $6.3 million for default interest on past due debentures and note payable, $2.1 million for interest associated with loans from a former member of our Board of Directors and approximately $1.2 million of interest expense on notes payable and finance lease obligations. Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 included $1.6 million for interest associated with loans from a former member of our Board of Directors, and $16.2 million for the amortization of debt discount and deferred financing costs related to debentures and note payable, including $9.5 million for the modification of warrants issued in connection with debentures and approximately $3.6 million of interest expense on debentures, notes payable, finance lease obligations and the settlement of a prepaid forward purchase contract.
Benefit from Income Taxes
The net income tax benefit was $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. We did not incur income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2019. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the U.S. Congress approved the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”). The CARES Act allows a five-year carryback privilege for federal net operating tax losses that arose in a tax year beginning in 2018 and through 2020. As a result, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded approximately $1.1 million in income tax refunds from the carryback of certain of our federal net operating losses. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded an additional $0.3 million of income tax benefits resulting from carryback adjustments related to prior years, partially offset by $0.1 million for the provision for state income taxes.
Net Loss from Continuing Operations
Our net loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $17.6 million compared to a loss of $46.6 million in 2019. The improvement was primarily due to other income (expense), net of approximately $5.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to other income (expense), net of ($9.3) million in 2019, a $0.7 million net gain from legal settlements and a gain of $2.0 million on extinguishment of debt in the year ended December 31, 2020, a decrease in interest expense of $11.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to 2019 and a $1.3 million income tax benefit in the year ended December 31, 2020. Partially offsetting the improvement was an increase in the loss from continuing operations before other income (expense) and income taxes of $1.5 million.
The following table presents key financial metrics that management uses to monitor the results for our Hospital Operations:
(1) In addition to the net revenues generated from our hospital operations in 2019, we generated $75,460 of revenues related to non-hospital operations. Thus, the total net revenues were $16.0 million for 2019.
Our Hospital Operations have historically generated operating losses. We served less patients during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to 2019 as a result of the suspension of operations at Jamestown Regional Medical Center, which did not operate during 2020 following the termination of the Medicare program in June 2019. Also, reducing the number of patients served was the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as staffing issues and shortages of hospital supplies due to cash constraints, which required us to divert patients to third-party facilities during 2020. Net revenues and direct costs per patient increased in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to 2019 due to the type of services billed. Direct costs per patient were also impacted by the use of contract labor versus employees for patient care during the year ended December 31, 2020.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, we financed our operations from the issuances of equity, debentures and notes payable, loans from Mr. Diamantis, a former member of our Board of Directors, and the sale of accounts receivable under sales agreements. Also, during the year ended December 31, 2020 we received approximately $2.3 million from PPP Notes and approximately $12.5 million from HHS Provider Relief Funds. On June 30, 2020, we entered into an exchange agreement with Mr. Diamantis, wherein we exchanged the amount owed to Mr. Diamantis for principal and interest on that date, which totaled $18.8 million, for shares of the Company’s Series M Convertible Preferred Stock. On August 31, 2020, we entered into the Exchange and Redemption Agreement with certain institutional investors in the Company as discussed in the paragraph below. Each of these financing transactions is more fully discussed in Notes 1, 4, 7, 8, 9, 13 and 14 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Under the Exchange and Redemption Agreement, the investors agreed to reduce their holdings of the Company’s debentures (the debentures are more fully discussed in Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements) by approximately $19.3 million (including accrued interest and penalties) by exchanging the debentures and all of the outstanding shares of the Company’s Series I-1 Convertible Preferred Stock and Series I-2 Convertible Preferred Stock (the preferred stock is more fully discussed in Note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements) for 30,435.52 shares of the Company’s newly-authorized Series N Preferred Stock.
The investors continued to own, after the initial exchange, approximately $14.9 million (including accrued interest and penalties) of debentures, but agreed that the Company could redeem $10 million of its obligations under these debentures held by the investors at face value, plus accrued interest and penalties. These debentures included approximately $4.9 million under debentures and accrued interest that have been guaranteed by Mr. Diamantis. This redemption right was exercisable for 90 days, or until November 29, 2020. If it had been exercised in full, the remaining debentures held by the investors (totaling approximately $4.9 million, including accrued interest and penalties) would have been exchanged for approximately 4,900 additional shares of Series N Preferred Stock.
During the 90-day redemption period (or until the occurrence of certain specified events, if earlier), the investors agreed to forbear from exercising any remedies against the Company or Mr. Diamantis as a result of any existing defaults under the outstanding securities. During that period, additional interest did not accrue and would have been forgiven if the redemption right was exercised in full. If the redemption right was not exercised in full, all such amounts would become due and payable. The redemption right was not exercised and all such amounts have become due and payable.
Future cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures, debt obligations and potential acquisitions will require management to seek additional equity or obtain additional credit facilities. The Company and our facilities may also receive additional government assistance. The sale/issuances of additional equity will result in additional dilution to our stockholders. A portion of our cash may be used to acquire or invest in complementary businesses or products or to obtain the right to use complementary technologies. From time-to-time, in the ordinary course of business, we evaluate potential acquisitions of such businesses, products or technologies.
Going Concern and Liquidity
Under ASU 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements-Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40) (“ASC 205-40”), the Company has the responsibility to evaluate whether conditions and/or events raise substantial doubt about its ability to meet its future financial obligations as they become due within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. As required by ASC 205-40, this evaluation shall initially not take into consideration the potential mitigating effects of plans that have not been fully implemented as of the date the financial statements are issued. Management has assessed the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in accordance with the requirement of ASC 205-40.
As reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company had a working capital deficit and an accumulated deficit of $56.5 million and $868.5 million, respectively, at December 31, 2020. In addition, the Company had a loss from continuing operations of approximately $17.6 million and cash used in operating activities of $16.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. As of the date of this report, our cash is deficient and payments for our operations in the ordinary course are not being made. The continued losses and other related factors, including the payment defaults under the terms of outstanding notes payable and debentures as more discussed in Notes 8 and 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern for twelve months from the filing date of this report. Our fixed operating expenses include payroll, rent, finance lease payments and other fixed expenses, as well as the costs required to operate our Hospital Operations. Our fixed operating expenses were approximately $1.5 million per month for the year ended December 31, 2020.
We need to raise additional funds immediately and continue to do so until we begin to realize positive cash flow from operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our business plan, which is to acquire and operate clusters of rural hospitals, raise any additional capital or secure the additional financing necessary to implement our current operating plan. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to significantly reduce our operating costs, increase our revenues and eventually achieve profitable operations. The accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern.