Many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, additional measures that are designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures and to make changes to private healthcare insurance. Various states have applied, or are considering applying, for a waiver from current Medicaid regulations in order to allow them to serve some of their Medicaid participants through managed care providers. These proposals also may attempt to include coverage for some people who presently are uninsured, and generally could have the effect of reducing payments to hospitals, physicians and other providers for the same level of service provided under Medicaid.
Healthcare Facility Regulation
Certificate of Need Requirements
A number of states require approval for the purchase, construction or expansion of various healthcare facilities, including findings of need for additional or expanded healthcare services. Certificates of Need (“CONs”), which are issued by governmental agencies with jurisdiction over applicable healthcare facilities, are at times required for capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount, changes in bed capacity or the addition of services and certain other matters. Tennessee, the state in which we currently own our hospitals, has a CON law that applies to such facilities. States periodically review, modify and revise their CON laws and related regulations. Any violation of state CON laws can result in the imposition of civil sanctions or the revocation of licenses for such facilities. We are unable to predict whether our hospitals will be able to obtain any CONs that may be necessary to accomplish their business objectives in any jurisdiction where such certificates of need are required. Violation of these state laws may result in the imposition of civil sanctions or the revocation of licenses for such facilities. In addition, future healthcare facility acquisitions also may occur in states that require CONs.
Future healthcare facility acquisitions also may occur in states that do not require CONs or which have less stringent CON requirements than the state in which Rennova currently owns hospitals. Any healthcare facility operated by the Company in such states may face increased competition from new or expanding facilities operated by competitors, including physicians.
Utilization Review Compliance and Hospital Governance
Healthcare facilities are subject to, and are required to comply with, various forms of utilization review. In addition, under the Medicare prospective payment system, each state must have a peer review organization to carry out a federally mandated system of review of Medicare patient admissions, treatments and discharges in hospitals. Medical and surgical services and physician practices are supervised by committees of staff doctors at each healthcare facility, are overseen by each healthcare facility’s local governing board, the primary voting members of which are physicians and community members, and are reviewed by quality assurance personnel. The local governing boards also help maintain standards for quality care, develop long-range plans, establish, review and enforce practices and procedures and approve the credentials and disciplining of medical staff members.
Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act
The Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act (“EMTALA”) is a federal law that requires any hospital that participates in the Medicare program to conduct an appropriate medical screening examination of every person who presents to the hospital’s emergency department for treatment and, if the patient is suffering from an emergency medical condition or is in active labor, to either stabilize that condition or make an appropriate transfer of the patient to a facility that can handle the condition. The obligation to screen and stabilize emergency medical conditions exists regardless of a patient’s ability to pay for treatment. There are severe penalties under EMTALA if a hospital fails to screen or appropriately stabilize or transfer a patient or if the hospital delays appropriate treatment in order to first inquire about the patient’s ability to pay. Penalties for violations of EMTALA include civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare program, the Medicaid program or both. In addition, an injured patient, the patient’s family or a medical facility that suffers a financial loss as a direct result of another hospital’s violation of the law can bring a civil suit against that other hospital. Although we believe that we comply with EMTALA, we cannot predict whether the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) will implement new requirements in the future and whether we will be able to comply with any new requirements.
General Healthcare Regulations
Drugs and Controlled Substances
Various licenses and permits are required by our hospitals to dispense narcotics. They are required to register our dispensing operations for permits and/or licenses with, and comply with certain operating and security standards of, the United States Drug Enforcement Agency (“DEA”), the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), state health departments and other state agencies.
Fraud and Abuse, Anti-Kickback and Self-Referral Regulations
Participation in the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs is heavily regulated by federal statutes and regulations. If we fail to comply substantially with the numerous federal laws governing our businesses, our participation in the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs may be terminated and/or civil or criminal penalties may be imposed. For example, a hospital may lose its ability to participate in the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs if it:
● makes claims to Medicare and/or Medicaid for services not provided or misrepresents actual services provided in order to obtain higher payments;
● pays money to induce the referral of patients or the purchase of items or services where such items or services are reimbursable under a federal or state health program;
● fails to report or repay improper or excess payments; or
● fails to provide appropriate emergency medical screening services to any individual who comes to a hospital’s campus or otherwise fails to properly treat and transfer emergency patients.
Hospitals continue to be one of the primary focus areas of the federal Office of the Inspector General (“OIG”) and other governmental fraud and abuse programs and the OIG has issued and periodically updated compliance program guidance for hospitals. Each federal fiscal year, the OIG also publishes a General Work Plan that provides a brief description of the activities that the OIG plans to initiate or continue with respect to the programs and operations of the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) and details the areas that the OIG believes are prone to fraud and abuse.
Sections of the Anti-Fraud and Abuse Amendments to the Social Security Act, commonly known as the “anti-kickback” statute, prohibit certain business practices and relationships that might influence the provision and cost of healthcare services reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, TriCare or other healthcare programs, including the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients whose care will be funded by Medicare or other government programs. Sanctions for violating the anti-kickback statute include criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including fines and possible exclusion from future participation in government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. HHS has issued regulations that create safe harbors under the anti-kickback statute. A given business arrangement that does not fall within an enumerated safe harbor is not per se illegal; however, business arrangements that fail to satisfy the applicable safe harbor criteria are subject to increased scrutiny by enforcement authorities.
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) broadened the scope of the fraud and abuse laws by adding several criminal statutes that are not related to receipt of payments from a federal healthcare program. HIPAA created civil penalties for proscribed conduct, including upcoding and billing for medically unnecessary goods or services. These laws cover all health insurance programs, private as well as governmental. In addition, HIPAA broadened the scope of certain fraud and abuse laws, such as the anti-kickback statute, to include not just Medicare and Medicaid services, but all healthcare services reimbursed under a federal or state healthcare program. Finally, HIPAA established enforcement mechanisms to combat fraud and abuse. These mechanisms include a bounty system where a portion of the payment recovered is returned to the government agencies, as well as a whistleblower program, where a portion of the payment received is paid to the whistleblower. HIPAA also expanded the categories of persons that may be excluded from participation in federal and state healthcare programs.
There is increasing scrutiny by law enforcement authorities, the OIG, the courts and the U.S. Congress of arrangements between healthcare providers and potential referral sources to ensure that the arrangements are not designed as mechanisms to exchange remuneration for patient-care referrals and opportunities. Investigators also have demonstrated a willingness to look behind the formalities of a business transaction and to reinterpret the underlying purpose of payments between healthcare providers and potential referral sources. Enforcement actions have increased, as is evidenced by highly publicized enforcement investigations of certain hospital activities.
In addition, provisions of the Social Security Act, known as the Stark Act, also prohibit physicians from referring Medicare and Medicaid patients to providers of a broad range of designated health services with which the physicians or their immediate family members have ownership or certain other financial arrangements. Certain exceptions are available for employment agreements, leases, physician recruitment and certain other physician arrangements. A person making a referral, or seeking payment for services referred, in violation of the Stark Act is subject to civil monetary penalties; restitution of any amounts received for illegally billed claims; and/or exclusion from future participation in the Medicare program, which can subject the person or entity to exclusion from future participation in state healthcare programs.
Further, if any physician or entity enters into an arrangement or scheme that the physician or entity knows or should have known has the principal purpose of assuring referrals by the physician to a particular entity, and the physician directly makes referrals to such entity, then such physician or entity could be subject to a civil monetary penalty. Compliance with and the enforcing of penalties for violations of these laws and regulations is changing and increasing. For example, CMS has issued a “self-referral disclosure protocol” for hospitals and other providers that wish to self-disclose potential violations of the Stark Act and attempt to resolve those potential violations and any related overpayment liabilities at levels below the maximum penalties and amounts set forth in the statute. In light of the provisions of the Affordable Care Act that created potential liabilities under the federal False Claims Act (discussed below) for failing to report and repay known overpayments and return an overpayment within 60 days of the identification of the overpayment or the date by which a corresponding cost report is due, whichever is later, hospitals and other healthcare providers are encouraged to disclose potential violations of the Stark Act to CMS. It is likely that self-disclosure of Stark Act violations will increase in the future. Finally, many states have adopted or are considering similar legislative proposals, some of which extend beyond the Medicaid program, to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients and physician self-referrals regardless of the source of the payment for the care.
The Federal False Claims Act and Similar State Laws