In December of 2016, TCS-Florida, L.P. (“Tetra”), filed suit against the Company for failure to make the required payment under an equipment leasing contract that the Company had with Tetra and received a judgment against the Company. In May 2018, Tetra and the Company agreed to dispose of certain equipment and the proceeds from the sale were applied to the outstanding balance. In July 2020, the Company entered into a settlement with Tetra and paid $100,000 as full and final settlement of all liability to Tetra. As a result of the settlement, the Company recorded a gain from settlement of approximately $0.9 million in the year ended December 31, 2020.
In December of 2016, DeLage Landen Financial Services, Inc. (“DeLage”), filed suit against the Company for failure to make the required payments under an equipment leasing contract that the Company had with DeLage (see Note 11). On January 24, 2017, DeLage received a default judgment against the Company in the approximate amount of $1.0 million, representing the balance owed on the lease, as well as additional interest, penalties and fees. The Company recognized this amount in its consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2016. On February 8, 2017, a Stay of Execution was filed and under its terms the balance due was to be paid in variable monthly installments through January of 2019, with an implicit interest rate of 4.97%. The Company and DeLage disposed of certain equipment and reduced the balance owed to DeLage. A balance of $0.2 million remained outstanding at December 31, 2020.
On December 7, 2016, the holders of the Tegal Notes (see Note 8 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements) filed suit against the Company seeking payment for the amounts due under the notes in the aggregate of the principal of $341,612, and accrued interest of $43,000. A request for entry of default judgment was filed on January 24, 2017. On April 23, 2018, the holders of the Tegal Notes received a judgment against the Company. As of December 31, 2020, the Company has repaid $44,544 of the principal amount of these notes.
The Company, as well as many of our subsidiaries, are defendants in a case filed in Broward County Circuit Court by TCA Global Credit Master Fund, L.P. The plaintiff alleges a breach by Medytox Solutions, Inc. of its obligations under a debenture and claims damages of approximately $2,030,000 plus interest, costs and fees. The Company and the other subsidiaries are sued as alleged guarantors of the debenture. The complaint was filed on August 1, 2018. The Company has recorded the principal balance and interest owed under the debenture agreement for the period ended December 31, 2020 (see Note 8 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements). The Company and all defendants have filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, but have not recorded any potential liability related to any further damages. In May 2020, the SEC appointed a Receiver to close down the TCA Global Master Fund, L.P. over allegations of accounting fraud. The amount recorded by the Company as being owed to TCA was based on TCA’s application of prior payments made by the Company. The Company believes that prior payments of principal and interest may have been applied to unenforceable investment banking and other fees and charges. It is the Company’s position that the amount owed to TCA is less than what is set forth in Note 8 of accompanying consolidated financial statements and the Company intends to negotiate a settlement with the Receiver.
On September 13, 2018, Laboratory Corporation of America sued EPIC Reference Labs, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, in Palm Beach County Circuit Court for amounts claimed to be owed. The court awarded a judgment against EPIC Reference Labs, Inc. in May 2019 for approximately $155,000. The Company has recorded the amount owed as a liability as of December 31, 2020.
In August 2019, EPIC Reference Labs, Inc. and Medytox Diagnostics, Inc. were sued by Beckman Coulter, Inc. in the same court under an agreement to purchase laboratory supplies. The plaintiff claims damages of approximately $124,000. The Company has disputed the amount owed and, in October 2020, entered into a settlement agreement to pay $35,000 as full and final settlement of this matter.
In July 2019, the landlord of Medytox Solutions, Inc. received a judgment in the amount of approximately $413,000 in connection with failure to pay under an office lease in West Palm Beach, Florida. The Company reached a settlement in May 2020 to resolve the judgment for the amount of $300,000, which was fully paid in 2020.
In February 2020, Anthony O. Killough sued the Company and Mr. Diamantis, as guarantor, in New York State Court for the County of New York, for approximately $2.0 million relating to the promissory note issued by the Company in September 2019. In May 2020, the parties entered into a Stipulation providing for a payment of a total of $2,158,168 (which includes accrued interest) in installments through November 1, 2020. (See Note 8 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements). As of December 31, 2020, the Company has not made the majority of the required payments and, as a result, approximately $1.9 million, which includes penalty interest at a rate of 20% per annum, is due and owing.
In February 2021, a supplier to the Company’s hospitals, Shared Medical Services, Inc., filed suit in Palm Beach County Circuit Court for approximately $90,000 by virtue of default and for breach of contract and charges totaling approximately another $100,000. The Company disputes that it has any liability or responsibility under the agreements and has filed an initial response in the matter.
Following the Company’s decision to suspend operations at Jamestown Regional Medical Center in June 2019 a number of vendors remain unpaid. A number have initiated or threatened legal actions. The Company believes it will come to satisfactory arrangements with these parties as it works toward reopening the hospital. The Company has accrued the amounts that it expects to owe in its financial statements. The Company is planning to reopen the hospital upon securing adequate capital to do so. The reopening plans and timing thereof have also been disrupted by the current pandemic.
Two former employees of Jamestown Regional Medical Center have filed suit alleging violations of the federal Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (“WARN”). The Court entered a default against the Company on August 14, 2019. The parties disagreed to the amount of damages, specifically to whether part-time employees are entitled to WARN act damages. The parties have agreed and are in support of a confidential settlement agreement, which is in the final stage of agreement and is expected to be concluded in the second quarter of 2021. The Company has recorded the estimated settlement amount in the accompanying statements of operations in “Net gain from legal settlements,” and in the accompanying balance sheets in accrued expenses.
In June 2019, CHSPSC, the former owners of Jamestown Regional Medical Center, obtained a judgment against the Company in the amount of $592,650. The Company has recorded $130,000 of this judgment as a liability at December 31, 2020, as management believes that a number of insurance payments were made to CHSPCS after the change of ownership and will likely offset the majority of the claim made by CHSPCS.
In August 2019, Morrison Management Specialists, Inc. obtained a judgment against Jamestown Regional Medical Center and the Company in Fentress County, Tennessee in the amount of $194,455 in connection with housekeeping and dietary services. The Company has recorded this liability as of December 31, 2020.
In November 2019, Newstat, PLLC obtained a judgment against Big South Fork Medical Center in Knox County, Tennessee in the amount of $190,600 in connection with the provision of medical services. The Company has recorded this liability as of December 31, 2020.
Item 4.
section_4: Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
PART II
Item 5.
section_5: Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.
Since October 25, 2017, our common stock has been traded on the OTC Pink under the symbol “RNVA”. The following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices per share of our common stock as reported for the periods indicated, as adjusted to reflect all applicable reverse stock splits. Such quotations represent inter-dealer prices without retail markup, markdown or commissions and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. On March 31, 2021, the closing price for our common stock as reported on the OTC Pink was $.0043 per share.
As of March 31, 2021, there were three stockholders of record of our common stock, which excludes stockholders whose shares were held in nominee or street name by brokers.
Dividend Policy
Holders of the Company’s common stock are entitled to dividends when, as, and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available therefor. The holders of the Rennova Series F Preferred Stock and Series H Preferred Stock receive dividends at the same time any dividend is paid on shares of common stock in an amount equal to the amount such holder would have received if such shares of preferred stock were converted into common stock. Except for stock dividends, the holder of Rennova’s Series L Preferred Stock is not entitled to receive dividends on their shares. For each of Rennova’s Series M Preferred Stock and Series N Preferred Stock, dividends at the rate per annum of 10% of the stated value per share accrue on each outstanding share from and after the date of the original issuance of such share. Such accruing dividends accrue from day to day, whether or not declared, and are cumulative and non-compounding, provided, however, that such accruing dividends are payable only when, as and if declared by the Company’s Board of Directors. No cash dividends may be paid on the common stock unless these accruing dividends are paid.
We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock, nor do we anticipate any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Certain of our financing agreements prohibit the payment of cash dividends.
The Company intends to retain earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of its business. Future dividend policy will be subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors and will be contingent upon future earnings, if any, the Company’s financial condition, capital requirements, general business conditions, restrictions under the Company’s financing agreements and other factors. Therefore, there can be no assurance that any dividends of any kind will ever be paid on the Company’s common stock.
Equity Compensation Plan Information
The Company’s 2007 Equity Participation Plan (“2007 Equity Plan”), as amended, which became available upon the completion of the Merger, authorized an aggregate of 50 million shares of common stock to be available for grant pursuant to the 2007 Equity Plan. The 2007 Equity Plan provided for the grant of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, performance shares, performance stock units, dividend equivalents, stock payments, deferred stock, restricted stock units, other stock-based awards, and performance-based awards. The option exercise price of all stock options granted pursuant to the 2007 Equity Plan was not less than 100% of the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant. Stock options may be exercised as determined by the Board, but in no event after the tenth anniversary of the date of grant, provided that a vested nonqualified stock option may be exercised up to 12 months after the optionee’s death. Awards granted under the 2007 Equity Plan were generally subject to vesting at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The 2007 Equity Plan terminated pursuant to its terms in September 2017. Grants made prior to the date of termination will remain outstanding until exercised, forfeited or expired pursuant to the terms of each grant.