We gained an understanding of management’s process and methodology to develop the estimates. We reviewed the underlying warrant and preferred stock signed agreements. We evaluated management’s selection of a valuation method, tested the inputs used in the Black-Scholes calculation by agreeing terms of the underlying agreements and market information to third-party sites, and recalculated the deemed dividends. The Company used a specialist to perform the calculations and we gained an understanding of the specialist’s work. We assessed the knowledge, skill, and ability of the Company’s specialist and the specialist’s relationship to the Company. We evaluated the work of the specialist as delineated above. We evaluated the adequacy of the disclosures related to these fair value measurements.
Evaluation of Revenue Recognition
Description of the Matter:
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, revenues are based upon the estimated amounts the Company expects to be entitled to receive from patients and third-party payers. Estimates of contractual allowances under managed care, commercial, and governmental insurance plans are based upon the payment terms specified in the related contractual agreements or as mandated under government payer programs. Management continually reviews the contractual allowances estimation process to consider and incorporate updates to laws and regulations and the frequent changes in managed care contractual terms resulting from contract renegotiations and renewals.
Auditing management’s estimates of contractual allowances and implicit price concessions was complex and judgmental due to the significant data inputs and subjective assumptions utilized in determining related amounts.
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit:
To test the estimated contractual allowances and implicit price concessions, we performed audit procedures that included, among others, assessing methodologies and evaluating the significant assumptions discussed above and testing the completeness and accuracy of the underlying data used by the Company in its estimates. We compared the significant assumptions used by management to current industry and economic trends and considered changes, if any, to the Company’s business and other relevant factors. We also assessed the historical accuracy of management’s estimates as a source of potential corroborative or contrary evidence.
/s/ Haynie & Company
Haynie & Company
Salt Lake City, Utah
April 15, 2021
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2018.
RENNOVA HEALTH, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
RENNOVA HEALTH, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
RENNOVA HEALTH, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS’ DEFICIT
FOR THE YEAR DECEMBER 31, 2020
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
RENNOVA HEALTH, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS’ DEFICIT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements
RENNOVA HEALTH, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
RENNOVA HEALTH, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1 - Description of Business and Basis of Presentation
Rennova Health, Inc. (“Rennova”, together with its subsidiaries, the “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our”) is a provider of health care services. In late 2016, the Company decided to pursue the opportunity to acquire and operate clusters of rural hospitals and is currently focused on implementing this business model. The Company now owns one operating hospital, a hospital that it plans to reopen and operate, a physician’s office in Tennessee and a rural clinic in Kentucky. One of the hospitals closed on March 1, 2021, as more fully discussed below and in Note 20. As the business focus has transitioned to rural hospital operations, the Company has made plans to sell its last clinical laboratory, EPIC Reference Labs, Inc., and as a result, EPIC Reference Labs, Inc.’s operations have been classified as held for sale and included in discontinued operations for all periods presented. The Company’s operations now consist of only one business segment, Hospital Operations.
Reverse Stock Split
On July 22, 2020, the Company’s Board of Directors approved an amendment to the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation to effect a 1-for-10,000 reverse stock split effective July 31, 2020 (the “Reverse Stock Split”). On May 7, 2020, the holders of a majority of the total voting power of the Company’s securities approved an amendment to the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation to effect a reverse split of all of the Company’s shares of common stock at a specific ratio within a range from 1-for-100 to 1-for-10,000, and granted authorization to the Board of Directors to determine in its discretion the specific ratio and timing of the reverse split on or prior to December 31, 2020.
As a result of the Reverse Stock Split, every 10,000 shares of the Company’s common stock was combined and automatically converted into one share of the Company’s common stock on July 31, 2020. In addition, the conversion and exercise prices of all of the Company’s outstanding preferred stock, common stock purchase warrants, stock options, equity incentive plans and convertible debentures were proportionately adjusted at the applicable reverse split ratio in accordance with the terms of such instruments. In addition, proportionate voting rights and other rights of common stockholders were not affected by the Reverse Stock Split, other than as a result of the payment of cash in lieu of fractional shares as no fractional shares were issued in connection with the Reverse Stock Split.
All share, per share and capital stock amounts and common stock equivalents as of and for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 presented herein have been restated to give effect to the Reverse Stock Split.
Jamestown Regional Medical Center Medicare Agreement
Following an inspection at Jamestown Regional Medical Center on February 5, 2019, the hospital was informed on February 15 that several conditions of participation in its Medicare agreement were deficient. The hospital was informed that if the deficiencies were not corrected by May 16 the Medicare agreement would terminate. A follow-up inspection on May 15 resulted in the determination that the hospital had failed to adequately correct the deficiencies highlighted and a notice of involuntary termination was issued that was effective on June 12, 2019. A significant percentage of patients at Jamestown Regional Medical Center are covered by Medicare and without any ability to get paid for these services the Company suspended operations at the hospital. The Company plans to reopen the hospital upon securing adequate capital to do so. The reopening plans have also been disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic and the timing of the reopening has been delayed and is now intended for mid-2021.
Jellico Community Hospital and CarePlus Center
Effective March 5, 2019, the Company acquired certain assets related to Jellico Community Hospital and CarePlus Center, as more fully discussed in Note 6. Jellico Community Hospital was a 54-bed acute care facility that offered comprehensive services, including diagnostic imaging, radiology, surgery (general, gynecological and vascular), nuclear medicine, wound care and hyperbaric medicine, intensive care, emergency care and physical therapy. The CarePlus Center services include diagnostic imaging services, x-ray, mammography, bone densitometry, computed tomography (CT), ultrasound, physical therapy and laboratory services on a walk-in basis. On March 1, 2021, the Company closed Jellico Community Hospital, after the City of Jellico issued a 30-day termination notice for the lease of the building, as more fully discussed in Note 20. The Company does not expect this closure to have an adverse effect on its business strategy and believes it will have a positive impact from a reduced cash requirement in the immediate future.
Impact of the Pandemic
A novel strain of coronavirus (“COVID-19”) was declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization on March 11, 2020. We have been closely monitoring the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our operations and we have taken steps intended to minimize the risk to our employees and patients. These steps have increased our costs and our revenues have been significantly adversely affected. Demand for hospital services has substantially decreased. As discussed in Note 8, we have received Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”) loans. We have also received Health and Human Services (“HHS”) Provider Relief Funds from the federal government as more fully discussed below. If the COVID-19 pandemic continues for a further extended period, we expect to incur significant losses and additional financial assistance may be required. Going forward, the Company is unable to determine the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to affect its business. The nature and effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on our balance sheet and results of operations will depend on the severity and length of the pandemic in our service areas; government activities to mitigate the pandemic’s effect; regulatory changes in response to the pandemic, especially those affecting rural hospitals; and existing and potential government assistance that may be provided.
Hospitalizations in Tennessee for COVID-19 increased throughout 2020 and appear to have peaked in December 2020. From third party information, there have been 822,085 cases and 12,001 deaths as of April 12, 2021. The roll out of vaccinations is expected to significantly reduce the risk of death and reduce transmission of the virus and a return to more normal expectations is expected throughout 2021. These developments have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the Company and the operations of our hospitals. Our plans to reopen our Jamestown Regional Medical Center, whose operations were suspended in June 2019, have been disrupted by the pandemic and the timing of the reopening has been delayed.
On September 14, 2020, the Company announced that it had purchased and taken delivery of equipment to provide rapid testing for COVID-19 at Jellico Community Hospital, CarePlus Center and Big South Fork Medical Center in an effort to provide the Company with an additional revenue stream.
On March 1, 2021, the Company closed Jellico Community Hospital, after the City of Jellico issued a 30-day termination notice for the lease of the building. The closure, including a discussion of Jamestown Community Hospital’s equipment, is more fully discussed in Note 20. This closure is not expected to have a negative impact on the current position of the business or the longer-term business strategy.
HHS Provider Relief Funds