We are required to file Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on a regular basis and are required to disclose certain material events in a Current Report on Form 8-K. All reports of the Company filed with the SEC are available free of charge through the SEC’s Web site at http://www.sec.gov. In addition, the public may read and copy materials filed by the Company at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may also obtain additional information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
Item 1A.
section_1A: Item 1A. Risk Factors
An investment in our securities is highly speculative and subject to numerous and substantial risks. These risks include those set forth herein. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this Annual Report before you decide to invest in our securities. If any of the following events actually occur, our business could be materially harmed. In such case, the value of your investment may decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should not invest in our securities unless you can afford the loss of your entire investment.
The Company’s Tennessee operations have operated at a loss and with a cash deficiency. The Company has limited access to capital and is solely dependent on its ability to secure the funding required to cover current losses and execute on its business plan until cash flow break even.
Cash deficiencies mean that payroll has been late, making retention of key employees difficult. Unless this situation is corrected we may lose employees to the point where it becomes difficult to operate, or we may fail to attract employees to key positions necessary for the business to succeed.
Losses incurred to date have created a need for additional capital, often at short notice required for the Company to remain in business. The Company relies on its CEO to secure funding to meet cash shortfalls. If capital is not secured, it will be difficult for the Company to remain in operation.
The holders of our Series M Convertible Preferred Stock have, in the aggregate, votes equal to 51% of all of the Company’s voting securities.
Regardless of the number of shares of Series M Preferred Stock outstanding and so long as at least one share of Series M Preferred Stock is outstanding, the outstanding shares of Series M Preferred Stock shall have the number of votes, in the aggregate, equal to 51% of all votes entitled to be voted at any meeting of stockholders or action by written consent. This means that the holders of Series M Preferred Stock have sufficient votes, by themselves, to approve or defeat any proposal voted on by the Company’s stockholders, unless there is a supermajority required under applicable law or by agreement. Holders of our common stock, therefore, will not have any control on issues submitted to a vote of stockholders.
Mr. Diamantis owns all of the outstanding Series M Preferred Stock. On August 13, 2020, however, he granted an irrevocable proxy to vote the Series M Preferred Stock to Seamus Lagan, the Chief Executive Officer, President and Interim Chief Financial Officer of the Company. As a result, Mr. Lagan controls a majority of the voting securities of the Company.
The current and potential effects of the coronavirus pandemic have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Demand for services at our hospitals due to the COVID-19 pandemic has substantially decreased, resulting in materially lower revenues. If the pandemic continues for a further extended period, we expect to incur additional significant losses and additional financial assistance may be required. Hospitalizations in Tennessee for COVID-19 have been increasing. In particular, infection levels in each of the three counties in which the Company owns hospitals are at the highest levels to date. An availability of vaccines may lessen the impact of the virus but no assurance can be given as to the timing of that occurring in our service area.
The coronavirus pandemic and the steps taken by governments to seek to reduce its spread have severely impacted the economy and the health care industry in particular. Hospitals have especially been affected. Small rural hospitals, such as ours, may be overwhelmed by patients if conditions worsen in their local areas. Staffing costs, and concerns due to the potential exposure to infections, may increase, as may the costs of needed medical supplies necessary to keep the hospitals open. Doctors and patients may defer elective procedures and other health care services. Travel bans, social distancing and quarantines may limit access to our facilities. Business closings and layoffs in our local areas may result in the loss of insurance and adversely affect demand for our services, as well as the ability of patients and other payers to pay for services as rendered.
Although our financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, we have recently accumulated significant losses and have negative cash flows from operations that could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing indebtedness or raise additional capital to fund our operations or limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness may adversely affect us. These or additional risks or uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.
If we are unable to improve our liquidity position we may not be able to continue as a going concern. The accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result if we are unable to continue as a going concern and, therefore, be required to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities other than in the normal course of business, which could cause investors to suffer the loss of all or a substantial portion of their investment.
We have accumulated significant losses and have negative cash flows from operations, and at December 31, 2020, we had a working capital deficit and accumulated deficit of $56.5 million and $868.5 million, respectively. In addition, we incurred a net loss from continuing operations of $17.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 and we used cash of $16.8 million to fund our operations during 2020. Our cash position is critically deficient, and payments for our operations are not being made in the ordinary course of business. The continued losses and other related factors, including the payment defaults of outstanding debentures and notes payable, as more fully discussed in Notes 1, 8 and 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for the next 12 months.
In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 205-20, and having met the criteria for “held for sale”, we have reflected amounts relating to AMSG and HTS as disposal groups classified as held for sale and included as part of discontinued operations. The discontinued operations of AMSG and HTS are described further in Note 17 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
On June 10, 2020, the Company signed an agreement for the separation of AMSG & HTS into a public company. The agreement with TPT Global Tech, Inc. (“TPT”) (OTC: TPTW), a California-based public company, was to merge HTS and AMSG into a public company after TPT completed a merger of its wholly-owned subsidiary, InnovaQor, Inc., with this public company. Rennova terminated its agreement with TPT on March 8, 2021 after numerous attempts to close the transaction as proposed failed due to uncertainty and last minute unviable demands from TPT that would have created a high risk to the future success of the project. Rennova is currently considering the actions of TPT with the belief that TPT acted outside of agreements that were in place and may have converted Rennova owned confidential information for their own benefit and business strategy. Rennova intends to pursue any remedy available to it under the law to recover money owed from TPT and to protect its technology and assets.
The Company continues to pursue options available to it to separate these entities and believes this can be accomplished in the second quarter of 2021. The strategic goal of this transaction is to create a separate public company which can focus on its own strengths and operational plans and create value for Rennova and its shareholders.
In addition, during 2020, the Company announced that it had reached a tentative agreement to sell its last clinical laboratory outside of its hospitals, EPIC Reference Labs, Inc., to TPT and as a result, EPIC Reference Labs, Inc.’s operations have been classified as held for sale and included in discontinued operations for all periods presented. This proposed sale was terminated by Rennova on March 10, 2021, along with a lab management agreement and other permissions that had been granted by Rennova to TPT. Rennova is owed certain payments under the agreements and intends to take the necessary actions to secure payments owed by TPT.
For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, our hospital operations provided services to 17,316 and 41,677 patients and recognized approximately $7.2 million and $15.9 million of net revenues, respectively, and recorded approximately $59.8 million and $123.8 million of gross revenues during 2020 and 2019, respectively. On March 5, 2019, we acquired certain assets of Jellico Community Hospital and CarePlus Center. On August 15, 2019, the Company received notice from CMS that the change of ownership for Jellico was effective from March 1, 2019, enabling the hospital, after almost six months of ownership, to bill and get paid for services beginning on March 1, 2019.
The Company’s core business plan is to own and operate rural hospitals, which is a specialized marketplace with a requirement for capable and knowledgeable management. The Company’s current financial condition may make it difficult to attract and maintain adequate expertise in its management team to successfully operate the Company’s hospitals. To date, the Company has not realized profitable hospital operations.
Following an inspection at Jamestown Regional Medical Center on February 5, 2019, the hospital was informed on February 15 that several conditions of participation in the CMS-approved Medicare accreditation program were deficient. The hospital was informed that if the deficiencies were not corrected by May 16 the Medicare agreement would terminate. A follow-up inspection on May 15 resulted in the determination that the hospital had failed to adequately correct the deficiencies highlighted and a notice of involuntary termination was issued effective on June 12, 2019. The Company plans to reopen the hospital upon securing adequate capital to do so. The reopening plans have also been disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic and the timing of the reopening has been delayed but is expected to be initiated in mid-2021.
On March 1, 2021, the Company closed Jellico Community Hospital after the City of Jellico issued a 30-day termination notice for the lease of the building. This closure is not expected to have a negative impact on the Company’s business plan or strategy.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our business plan, which is to acquire and operate clusters of rural hospitals, raise any additional capital or secure the additional financing necessary to implement our current operating plan. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to raise adequate capital to fund our operations and repay our outstanding debentures and other past due obligations, fully align our operating costs, increase our revenues and eventually regain profitable operations. The accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern.