Moreover, regardless of the outcome, if we or physicians or other third parties with whom we do business are investigated by a regulatory or law enforcement authority we could incur substantial costs, including legal fees, and our management may be required to divert a substantial amount of time to an investigation.
To enhance compliance with applicable health care laws, and mitigate potential liability in the event of noncompliance, regulatory authorities, such as the OIG, have recommended the adoption and implementation of a comprehensive health care compliance program that generally contains the elements of an effective compliance and ethics program described in Section 8B2.1 of the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines Manual, and for many years the OIG has made available a model compliance program. In addition, certain states require that health care providers that engage in substantial business under the state Medicaid program have a compliance program that generally adheres to the standards set forth in the Model Compliance Program. Also, under the ACA, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, will require suppliers, such as the Company, to adopt, as a condition of Medicare participation, compliance programs that meet a core set of requirements. While we have adopted, or are in the process of adopting, healthcare compliance and ethics programs that generally incorporate the OIG’s recommendations, and training our applicable employees in such compliance, having such a program can be no assurance that we will avoid any compliance issues.
We conduct our business in a heavily regulated industry and changes in regulations or violations of regulations could, directly or indirectly, harm our operating results and financial condition.
The healthcare industry is highly regulated and there can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change significantly and adversely in the future. Areas of the regulatory environment that may affect our ability to conduct business include, without limitation:
● federal and state laws applicable to billing and claims payment;
● federal and state laws relating to licensure;
● federal and state anti-kickback laws;
● federal and state false claims laws;
● federal and state self-referral and financial inducement laws, including the federal physician anti-self-referral law, or the Stark Law;
● coverage and reimbursement levels by Medicare and other governmental payors and private insurers;
● HIPAA, along with the revisions to HIPAA as a result of the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH”), and analogous state laws;
● federal and state regulation of privacy, security, electronic transactions and identity theft;
● federal, state and local laws governing the handling, transportation and disposal of medical and hazardous waste;
● Occupational Safety and Health Administration rules and regulations;
● changes to laws, regulations and rules as a result of the ACA; and
● changes to other federal, state and local laws, regulations and rules, including tax laws.
These laws and regulations are extremely complex and in many instances, there are no significant regulatory or judicial interpretations of these laws and regulations. Any determination that we have violated these laws or regulations, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws or regulations, could harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, a significant change in any of these laws or regulations may require us to change our business model in order to maintain compliance with these laws or regulations, which could harm our operating results and financial condition.
Failure to comply with complex federal and state laws and regulations related to submission of claims for services can result in significant monetary damages and penalties and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs.
We are subject to extensive federal and state laws and regulations relating to the submission of claims for payment for services, including those that relate to coverage of our services under Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental health care programs, the amounts that may be billed for our services and to whom claims for services may be submitted.
Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in our inability to receive payment for our services or result in attempts by third-party payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, to recover payments from us that have already been made. Submission of claims in violation of certain statutory or regulatory requirements can result in penalties, including substantial civil money penalties for each item or service billed to Medicare in violation of the legal requirement, and exclusion from participation in Medicare and Medicaid. Government authorities may also assert that violations of laws and regulations related to submission or causing the submission of claims violate the federal False Claims Act (“FCA”) or other laws related to fraud and abuse, including submission of claims for services that were not medically necessary. Violations of the FCA could result in enormous economic liability. The FCA provides that all damages are trebled. For example, we could be subject to FCA liability if it was determined that the services we provided were not medically necessary and not reimbursable, particularly if it were asserted that we contributed to the physician’s referrals of unnecessary services to us. It is also possible that the government could attempt to hold us liable under fraud and abuse laws for improper claims submitted by an entity for services that we performed if we were found to have knowingly participated in the arrangement that resulted in submission of the improper claims.
Our hospitals are subject to potential claims for professional liability, including existing or potential claims based on the acts or omissions of third parties, which claims may not be covered by insurance.
Our hospitals are subject to potential claims for professional liability (medical malpractice) in connection with their operations, as well as potentially acquired or discontinued operations. To cover such claims, professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance are maintained in amounts believed to be sufficient for operations, although some claims may exceed the scope or amount of the coverage in effect. The assertion of a significant number of claims, either within a self-insured retention (deductible) or individually or in the aggregate in excess of available insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Premiums for professional liability insurance have historically been volatile and we cannot assure you that professional liability insurance will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The operations of hospitals also depend on the professional services of physicians and other trained healthcare providers and technicians in the conduct of their respective operations, including independent laboratories and physicians rendering diagnostic and medical services. There can be no assurance that any legal action stemming from the act or omission of a third party provider of healthcare services would not be brought against one of our hospitals, resulting in significant legal expenses in order to defend against such legal action or to obtain a financial contribution from the third party whose acts or omissions occasioned the legal action.
Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified healthcare professionals. A shortage of qualified healthcare professionals could weaken our ability to deliver healthcare services.
Our hospitals’ operations are dependent on the efforts, ability and experience of healthcare professionals, such as physicians, nurses, therapists, pharmacists and lab technicians. Each hospital’s success has been, and will continue to be, influenced by its ability to attract and retain these skilled employees. A shortage of healthcare professionals, the loss of some or all of its key employees or the inability to attract or retain sufficient numbers of qualified healthcare professionals could cause the operating performance of one or more of our hospitals to decline.
A significant portion of our revenue is dependent on Medicare and Medicaid payments and possible reductions in Medicare or Medicaid payments or the implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursements may reduce our revenues.
A significant portion of our consolidated revenues are derived from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. Over 42% and 56% of consolidated net patient revenues were derived from the Medicare and Medicaid programs for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Previous legislative changes have resulted in, and future legislative changes may result in, limitations on and reduced levels of payment and reimbursement for a substantial portion of hospital procedures and costs.
Future healthcare legislation or other changes in the administration or interpretation of governmental healthcare programs may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.
Failure to timely or accurately bill for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business.
Billing for medical services is extremely complicated and is subject to extensive and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. Depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as patients, insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid, physicians, hospitals and employer groups. Changes in laws and regulations could increase the complexity and cost of our billing process. Additionally, auditing for compliance with applicable laws and regulations as well as internal compliance policies and procedures adds further cost and complexity to the billing process. Further, our billing systems require significant technology investment and, as a result of marketplace demands, we need to continually invest in our billing systems.
Missing, incomplete, or incorrect information on requisitions adds complexity to and slows the billing process, creates backlogs of unbilled requisitions, and generally increases the aging of accounts receivable and bad debt expense. Failure to timely or correctly bill may lead to our not being reimbursed for our services or an increase in the aging of our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Failure to comply with applicable laws relating to billing or even having to pay back amounts incorrectly billed and collected could lead to various penalties, including: (1) exclusion from participation in CMS and other government programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows.
There have been times when our accounts receivable have increased at a greater rate than revenue growth and, therefore, have adversely affected our cash flows from operations. We have taken steps to implement systems and processing changes intended to improve billing procedures and related collection results. However, we cannot assure that our ongoing assessment of accounts receivable will not result in the need for additional provisions. Such additional provisions, if implemented, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of extreme weather conditions, natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, hostilities or acts of terrorism and other criminal activities.
Our operations are always subject to adverse impacts resulting from extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities or acts of terrorism or other criminal activities. Such events may result in a temporary decline in the number of patients who seek our services or in our employees’ ability to perform their job duties. In addition, such events may temporarily interrupt our ability to provide our services. The occurrence of any such event and/or a disruption of our operations as a result may adversely affect our results of operations.
Increased competition, including price competition, could have a material adverse impact on our net revenues and profitability.