The COVID-19 pandemic was declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization on March 11, 2020. We have been closely monitoring the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our operations and we have taken steps intended to minimize the risk to our employees and patients. These steps have increased our costs and our revenues have been significantly adversely affected. Demand for hospital services has substantially decreased. As noted in Notes 1 and 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, we have received Paycheck Protection Program loans (“PPP Notes”) as well as Health and Human Services (“HHS”) Provider Relief Funds from the federal government. If the COVID-19 pandemic continues for a further extended period, we expect to incur significant losses and additional financial assistance may be required. Going forward, we are unable to determine the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to affect our business. The nature and effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on our balance sheet and results of operations will depend on the severity and length of the pandemic in our service areas; government activities to mitigate the pandemic’s effect; regulatory changes in response to the pandemic, especially those affecting rural hospitals; and existing and potential government assistance that may be provided.
The COVID-19 pandemic and the steps taken by governments to seek to reduce its spread have severely impacted the economy and the health care industry in particular. Hospitals have especially been affected. Small rural hospitals, such as ours, may be overwhelmed by patients if conditions worsen in their local areas. Staffing costs, and concerns due to the potential exposure to infections, may increase, as may the costs of needed medical supplies necessary to keep the hospitals open. Doctors and patients may defer elective procedures and other health care services. Travel bans, social distancing and quarantines may limit access to our facilities. Business closings and layoffs in our local areas may result in the loss of insurance and adversely affect demand for our services, as well as the ability of patients and other payers to pay for services as rendered.
Hospitalizations in Tennessee for COVID-19 increased throughout 2020 and appear to have peaked in December 2020. From third party information there have been 822,085 cases and 12,001 deaths as of April 12, 2021. The roll out of vaccinations is expected to significantly reduce the risk of death and reduce transmission of the virus and a return to more normal expectations is expected throughout 2021. These developments have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the Company and the operations of our hospitals. Our plans to reopen our Jamestown Regional Medical Center, whose operations were suspended in June 2019, have been disrupted by the pandemic and the timing of the reopening has been delayed
On September 14, 2020, the Company announced that it had purchased and taken delivery of equipment to provide rapid testing for COVID-19 at Jellico Community Hospital, CarePlus Center and Big South Fork Medical Center in an effort to provide the Company with an additional revenue stream.
On March 1, 2021, the Company closed Jellico Community Hospital, after the City of Jellico issued a 30-day termination notice for the lease of the building. This closure is not expected to have a negative impact on the current position of the business or the longer-term business strategy.
AMSG & HTS Group
We believe that a successful separation of the AMSG & HTS Group will allow each to focus on its own strengths and operational plans. The Company believes it will be able to recognize the expenditures to date with regard to the AMSG & HTS Group, which are approximately $14.9 million, as an investment after the separation is complete.
Result of Operations
Our loss from continuing operations before other income and (expense) and income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $17.2 million compared to a loss of $15.7 million for the same period a year ago. We attribute the increase in the operating loss primarily to the reduction in revenue.
We recorded a net loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 of $17.6 million, as compared to a loss of $46.6 million for the same period of a year ago. The improvement was primarily due to other income (expense), net of approximately $5.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to other income (expense), net of ($9.3) million in 2019, a $0.7 million net gain from legal settlements and a $2.0 million gain on extinguishment of debt in the year ended December 31, 2020, a decrease in interest expense of $11.9 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to 2019 and a $1.3 million income tax benefit in the year ended December 31, 2020. Partially offsetting the improvement was an increase in the loss from continuing operations before other income (expense) and income taxes of $1.5 million.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make a number of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. Such estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We base our estimates on historical experiences and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. We continue to monitor significant estimates made during the preparation of our financial statements. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate estimates and assumptions based upon historical experience and various other factors and circumstances
We have identified the policies and significant estimation processes discussed below as critical to our business and to the understanding of our results of operations. For a detailed application of these and other accounting policies, see Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
We recognize revenue in accordance with Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606),” including subsequently issued updates. This series of comprehensive guidance has replaced all existing revenue recognition guidance. There is a five-step approach outlined in the standard. In determining revenue, we first identify the contract according to the scope of ASU Topic 606 with the following criteria:
● The parties have approved the contract either in writing; orally by acknowledgement; or implicitly, based on customary business practices.
● Each party’s rights and the contract’s payment terms are identified.
● The contract has commercial substance.
● Collection is probable.
Under the accounting guidance, we no longer present the provision for doubtful accounts as a separate line item and our revenues are presented net of estimated contract and related allowances. We also do not present “allowances for doubtful accounts” on our consolidated balance sheets.
We review our calculations for the realizability of gross service revenues monthly to make certain that we are properly allowing for the uncollectable portion of our gross billings and that our estimates remain sensitive to variances and changes within our payer groups. The contractual allowance calculation is made based on historical allowance rates for the various specific payer groups monthly with a greater weight being given to the most recent trends; this process is adjusted based on recent changes in underlying contract provisions. This calculation is routinely analyzed by us based on actual allowances issued by payers and the actual payments made to determine what adjustments, if any, are needed.
Our revenues generally relate to contracts with patients in which our performance obligations are to provide health care services to the patients. Revenues are recorded during the period our obligations to provide health care services are satisfied. Our performance obligations for inpatient services are generally satisfied over periods that average approximately five days, and revenues are recognized based on charges incurred in relation to total expected charges. Our performance obligations for outpatient services are generally satisfied over a period of less than one day. The contractual relationships with patients, in most cases, also involve a third-party payer (Medicare, Medicaid, managed care health plans and commercial insurance companies, including plans offered through the health insurance exchanges) and the transaction prices for the services provided are dependent upon the terms provided by (Medicare and Medicaid) or negotiated with (managed care health plans and commercial insurance companies) the third-party payers. The payment arrangements with third-party payers for the services we provide to the related patients typically specify payments at amounts less than our standard charges. Medicare generally pays for inpatient and outpatient services at prospectively determined rates based on clinical, diagnostic and other factors. Services provided to patients having Medicaid coverage are generally paid at prospectively determined rates per discharge, per identified service or per covered member. Agreements with commercial insurance carriers, managed care and preferred provider organizations generally provide for payments based upon predetermined rates per diagnosis, per diem rates or discounted fee-for-service rates. Management continually reviews the contractual estimation process to consider and incorporate updates to laws and regulations and the frequent changes in managed care contractual terms resulting from contract renegotiations and renewals. Our revenues are based upon the estimated amounts we expect to be entitled to receive from patients and third-party payers. Estimates of contractual allowances under managed care and commercial insurance plans are based upon the payment terms specified in the related contractual agreements. Revenues related to uninsured patients and uninsured copayment and deductible amounts for patients who have health care coverage may have discounts applied (uninsured discounts and contractual discounts). We also record estimated implicit price concessions (based primarily on historical collection experience) related to uninsured accounts to record self-pay revenues at the estimated amounts we expect to collect.
Laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs are complex and subject to interpretation. Estimated reimbursement amounts are adjusted in subsequent periods as cost reports are prepared and filed and as final settlements are determined (in relation to certain government programs, primarily Medicare, this is generally referred to as the “cost report” filing and settlement process).
The Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (“EMTALA”) requires any hospital participating in the Medicare program to conduct an appropriate medical screening examination of every person who presents to the hospital’s emergency room for treatment and, if the individual is suffering from an emergency medical condition, to either stabilize the condition or make an appropriate transfer of the individual to a facility able to handle the condition. The obligation to screen and stabilize emergency medical conditions exists regardless of an individual’s ability to pay for treatment. Federal and state laws and regulations require, and our commitment to providing quality patient care encourages, us to provide services to patients who are financially unable to pay for the health care services they receive. Patients treated at hospitals for non-elective care, who have income at or below 200% of the federal poverty level, were eligible for charity care. The federal poverty level is established by the federal government and is based on income and family size. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts determined to qualify as charity care, they are not reported in revenues. We provide discounts to uninsured patients who do not qualify for Medicaid or charity care. In implementing the uninsured discount policy, we may first attempt to provide assistance to uninsured patients to help determine whether they may qualify for Medicaid, other federal or state assistance, or charity care. If an uninsured patient does not qualify for these programs, the uninsured discount is applied.