Management, including the chief executive officer, does not expect that the Company’s disclosure controls and internal controls will prevent all error and all fraud. Because of its inherent limitations, a system of internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met and may not prevent or detect misstatements. Further, over time, control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
With the participation of the chief executive officer, who also functions as our interim chief financial officer, our management evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020 based upon the framework in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. In connection with such evaluation, management identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. Insufficient staffing, accounting processes and procedures led to a lack of contemporaneous documentation supporting the accounting for certain transactions and the approval of certain cash disbursements. With the acquisitions of our hospitals, there are risks related to the timing and accuracy of the integration of information from various accounting systems whereby the Company has experienced delays in receiving information in a timely manner from its subsidiaries. Based on these material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, management concluded the Company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020.
This annual report does not include an attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. We were not required to have, nor have we, engaged our independent registered public accounting firm to perform an audit of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the rules of the Commission that permit us to provide only management’s report in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The Company expects improvements to be made on the integration of information issues during 2021 as we plan to move towards securing a prompt and accurate reporting system. The Company is continuing to further remediate the material weaknesses identified above as its resources permit. The Company is in the process of taking the following steps to remediate these material weaknesses: (i) increasing the staffing of its internal accounting department; (ii) continuing the process of converting to a new integrated accounting system to enhance controls and procedures for recording accounting transactions; and (iii) implementing enhanced documentation procedures to be followed by the internal accounting department, including independent review of material cash disbursements.
Notwithstanding such material weakness, management believes that the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K fairly present in all material respects the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for the periods and dates presented.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
During the three months ended December 31, 2020, there was no material change in our internal control over financial reporting that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Item 9B.
section_9B: Item 9B. Other Information.
None
PART III
Item 10.
section_10: Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.
The following table sets forth information with respect to persons who are currently serving as directors and executive officers of the Company.
Name
Age
Positions
Seamus Lagan
President, Chief Executive Officer, Interim Chief Financial Officer and Director
Gary L. Blum
Director
Trevor Langley
Director
All directors of the Company serve one-year terms and hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified.
Executive Officers’ and Directors’ Biographies
Seamus Lagan was appointed Chief Executive Officer and President and a director of the Company on November 2, 2015 and as Chief Executive Officer and a director of Medytox Solutions, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Medytox”), effective September 15, 2014. Mr. Lagan served as Interim Chief Financial Officer of the Company from September 30, 2016 through May 24, 2017. He was again appointed Interim Chief Financial Officer after the resignation of Michael Pollack, effective October 13, 2017, and served through April 8, 2019. Mr. Lagan has also been the Interim Chief Financial Officer of the Company since the resignation of Jonathan Immordino, effective May 10, 2019. Mr. Lagan has been, either individually or through Alcimede LLC (“Alcimede”), a consultant to Medytox since May 2011. Mr. Lagan has been a manager of Alcimede since its formation in 2007. Alcimede is a privately-held, Delaware limited liability company which provides various consulting services, including management, organization, and financial consulting services. Mr. Lagan also currently serves, through Alcimede, as chief executive officer of most of the subsidiaries of the Company. From September 2008 through May 2011, Mr. Lagan was a private investor. Mr. Lagan graduated from Ballymena Technical College in Ireland in 1989.
Gary L. Blum has served as a director of the Company since October 11, 2017. He established the Law Offices of Gary L. Blum in 1986. Mr. Blum has served as counsel for a wide variety of closely-held and public companies for over three decades. Prior to becoming an attorney, he was a tenured professor of philosophy at the University of Nebraska, Omaha. From September 2009 to July 2017, Mr. Blum served as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Thunderclap Entertainment, Inc. (now known as TraqIQ, Inc.), a company whose business was to develop, produce and distribute low-budget independent feature films. He has also been Chairman of PotNetwork Holdings, Inc. since November 2015 and was its Chief Executive Officer from November 2015 until September 2017. That company is engaged in the development and sales of hemp-derived CBD oil containing products.
Trevor Langley has served as a director of the Company since April 9, 2017. Since 2006, he has been the Owner and Managing Partner of Avanti Capital Group LLC/Avanti Partners, LLC (“Avanti”). Avanti assists micro, small and mid-cap publicly traded companies and those looking to become public by leveraging traditional and new communication technologies with a specialization in healthcare and alternative-energy markets. Avanti also provides comprehensive consulting services.
Family Relationships amongst Directors and Executive Officers
There are no family relationships between the executive officers and directors.
Audit Committee and Audit Committee Financial Expert
The purpose of the audit committee is to review the Company’s audited financial statements with management, review the performance of the Company’s independent registered public accountants, approve audit fees and fees for the preparation of the Company’s tax returns, review the Company’s internal accounting policies and internal control procedures and consider and appoint the Company’s independent registered public accountants. The audit committee has the authority to engage the services of outside experts and advisors as it deems necessary or appropriate to carry out its duties and responsibilities.
The audit committee charter is available on the Company’s website at www.rennovahealth.com by selecting “Investors” and then “Corporate Governance” from the available options.
The audit committee of the Company consists of Trevor Langley and Gary L. Blum. Each member of the audit committee qualifies as “independent” for purposes of membership on audit committees pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC. In addition, the Board of Directors of the Company has determined that Trevor Langley qualifies as an “audit committee financial expert” as defined by the rules and regulations of the SEC. John Beach and Dr. Kamran Ajami also served as members of the audit committee through their resignations as a director on May 30, 2019 and December 11, 2019, respectively.
Code of Conduct
The Company has adopted a written code of conduct (the “Code”), which is applicable to the Board of Directors and officers of the Company, including, but not limited to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Controller and all persons performing similar functions to the foregoing officers of the Company. We intend to post amendments to or waivers from the Code (to the extent applicable to our Principal Executive Officer, Principal Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer or Controller, or persons performing similar functions) on our website at www.rennovahealth.com. A copy of the Code will be provided to any person free of charge upon request by writing to Rennova Health, Inc., Attention: Secretary, 400 South Australian Avenue, Suite 800, West Palm Beach, Florida 33401.
Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance
Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act requires that our directors, executive officers and persons who beneficially own 10% or more of our stock file with the Securities and Exchange Commission initial reports of ownership and reports of changes in ownership of our stock and our other equity securities. To our knowledge, based solely on a review of the copies of such reports furnished to us and written representations that no other reports were required, during the year ended December 31, 2020, our directors, executive officers and greater than 10% beneficial owners complied with all such applicable filing requirements, except for the untimely filing of Form 4 reports by Mr. Roca and Dr. Mendolia.
Item 11.
section_11: Item 11. Executive Compensation.
The following table sets forth all of the compensation awarded to, earned by or paid to each individual that served as our principal executive officer or principal financial officer during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020. The Company did not have any other executive officers during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020.
SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE
(1) Mr. Lagan was Interim Chief Financial Officer of the Company from September 30, 2016 through May 24, 2017. He was again appointed Interim Chief Financial Officer after the resignation of Michael Pollack effective October 13, 2017, and served through June 30, 2018. Mr. Lagan has also been the Interim Chief Financial officer of the Company since the resignation of Jonathan Immordino, effective May 10, 2019.
(2) All other compensation for the year ended December 31, 2020 includes, for Mr. Lagan, consulting fees and reimbursement of expenses of $375,000, a payment of $100,000 for renewal of and amendment to the existing contract for a further three year period and an automobile expense allowance of $12,000. All other compensation for the year ended December 31, 2019 includes, for Mr. Lagan, consulting fees and reimbursement of expenses per contract, of $387,000 and an automobile allowance of $12,000.
OUTSTANDING EQUITY AWARDS AT FISCAL YEAR-END
The following table provides information regarding outstanding equity awards held by the named executive officers at December 31, 2020:
AGREEMENTS WITH NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
Seamus Lagan