When the down round feature is included in an equity-classified freestanding financial instrument, the value of the effect of the down round feature is treated as a dividend when it is triggered and as a numerator adjustment in the basic EPS calculation. This reflects the occurrence of an economic transfer of value to the holder of the instrument, while alleviating the complexity and income statement volatility associated with fair value measurement on an ongoing basis. The incremental value of the debentures and warrants as a result of the down round provisions of $256.4 million and $123.9 million were recorded as deemed dividends for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. See Note 12 for an additional discussion of derivative financial instruments.
Income Taxes
Income taxes are accounted for under the liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under the liability method, future tax liabilities and assets are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the amounts reported in the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Future tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted or substantially enacted income tax rates expected to apply when the asset is realized or the liability settled. The effect of a change in income tax rates on future income tax liabilities and assets is recognized in income in the period that the change occurs. Future income tax assets are recognized to the extent that they are considered more likely than not to be realized. When projected future taxable income is insufficient to provide for the realization of deferred tax assets, the Company recognizes a valuation allowance (see Note 15).
In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Company is required to determine whether a tax position of the Company is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the applicable taxing authority, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefit to be recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Derecognition of a tax benefit previously recognized could result in the Company recording a tax liability that would reduce net assets. Based on its analysis, the Company has determined that it has not incurred any liability for unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Earnings (Loss) Per Share
The Company reports earnings (loss) per share in accordance with ASC Topic 260, “Earnings Per Share,” which establishes standards for computing and presenting earnings per share. Basic earnings (loss) per share of common stock is calculated by dividing net earnings (loss) allocable to common shareholders by the weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding during the period, without consideration of common stock equivalents. Diluted earnings (loss) per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding for the dilutive effect of common stock equivalents, including stock options and warrants outstanding for the period as determined using the treasury stock method. For purposes of the diluted net loss per share calculation, common stock equivalents are excluded from the calculation when their effect would be anti-dilutive. Therefore, basic and diluted net loss per share applicable to common shareholders is the same for periods with a net loss. See Note 3 for the computation of loss per share for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Note 3 - Loss per Share
Basic and diluted loss per share is computed by dividing (i) loss available to common shareholders, by (ii) the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period.
Basic loss per share excludes dilution and is computed by dividing loss attributable to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted loss per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock that then shared in the income of the Company. For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, basic loss per share is the same as diluted loss per share.
The following table sets forth the computation of the Company’s basic and diluted net loss per share during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019:
Diluted loss per share excludes all dilutive potential shares if their effect is anti-dilutive. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the following potential common stock equivalents were excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share as their effect was anti-dilutive:
The terms of certain of the warrants, convertible preferred stock and convertible debentures issued by the Company provide for reductions in the per share exercise prices of the warrants and the per share conversion prices of the debentures and preferred stock (if applicable and subject to a floor in certain cases), in the event that the Company issues common stock or common stock equivalents (as that term is defined in the agreements) at an effective exercise/conversion price that is less than the then exercise/conversion prices of the outstanding warrants, preferred stock or debentures, as the case may be. In addition, many of these equity-based securities contain exercise or conversion prices that vary based upon the price of the Company’s common stock on the date of exercise/conversion (see Notes 12, 13 and 14). These provisions have resulted in significant dilution of the Company’s common stock and have given rise to reverse splits of the Company’s common stock. As a result of these down round provisions, the potential common stock and common stock equivalents totaled 25.9 billion at March 31, 2021 as more fully discussed in Note 20. See Note 14 regarding a discussion of the number of shares of the Company’s authorized common stock.
Note 4 - Accounts Receivable and Income Tax Refunds Receivable
Accounts receivable at December 31, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following:
The allowance for discounts reflected in the table above increased as a percentage of accounts receivable to 78% at December 31, 2020 compared to 63.0% at December 31, 2019. The allowance for discounts varies based on changes in historical contractual allowance rates.
For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, bad debt expense was $7.1 million and $8.5 million, respectively. The allowance for bad debts decreased by $3.7 million at December 31, 2020 compared to the balance at December 31, 2019. The Company’s policy is to write off accounts receivable balances against the allowance for bad debts once an accounts receivable ages past a specified number of days.
Accounts Receivable Sales Agreements and Installment Promissory Note
During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company entered into six accounts receivable sales agreements under which the Company sold $3.3 million of accounts receivable on a non-recourse basis for a purchase price paid to the Company of $2.2 million, less $0.1million of origination fees. Accordingly, the Company recorded a loss on the sale of $1.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2020, $1.7 million was outstanding and owed under the accounts receivable sales agreements.
During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company entered into five accounts receivable sales agreements. The aggregate amount of accounts receivable sold on a non-recourse basis during the year ended December 31, 2019 was $3.9 million. The aggregate purchase price paid to the Company was $2.6 million, less $0.1 million of origination fees. Accordingly, the Company recorded a loss on the sale of $1.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2019. As of December 31, 2019, $1.1 million was outstanding and owed under these accounts receivable sales agreements. On January 29, 2020, the Company entered into a Secured Installment Promissory Note (the “Installment Note”) in the principal amount of $1.2 million, less $0.1 million in origination fees, the proceeds of which were used to satisfy in full the amounts due under accounts receivable sales agreements. The Installment Note is more fully discussed in Note 8.
Income Tax Refunds Receivable
As of December 31, 2020, the Company had $1.4 million of income tax refunds receivable. During 2020, the U.S. Congress approved the CARES Act, which allows a five-year carryback privilege for federal net operating tax losses that arose in a tax year beginning in 2018 and through the current tax year, that is, 2020. As a result, during the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded approximately $1.1 million in refunds from the carryback of certain of its federal net operating losses. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded $0.3 million in refunds related to other net operating loss carryback adjustments and it received income tax refunds of $0.6 million related to the audit of the Company’s 2015 Federal tax return. The Company’s federal net operating losses are more fully discussed in Note 15.
Note 5 - Property and Equipment
Property and equipment at December 31, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following:
On March 5, 2019, the Company acquired certain assets and liabilities related to Jellico Community Hospital and CarePlus Center. The Company acquired property and equipment of $0.5 million for the Jellico Community Hospital and CarePlus Center acquisitions. These acquisitions are more fully discussed in Note 6.
On March 1, 2021, the Company closed Jellico Community Hospital, after the City of Jellico issued a 30-day termination notice for the lease of the building. The impact of the closure of the hospital on its property and equipment is discussed in Note 20. This closure is not expected to have a negative impact on the current position of the business or the longer-term business strategy.
Property and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their respective lives. The buildings are being depreciated over 39 years, leasehold improvements are depreciated over the life of the lease(s) and the remaining equipment is being depreciated over lives ranging from three to seven years. Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $0.7 million and $0.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Management periodically reviews the valuation of long-lived assets, including property and equipment, for potential impairment. Management did not recognize any impairment of these assets during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Note 6 - Acquisitions
Purchase Agreement re Jellico Community Hospital and CarePlus Center
Effective March 5, 2019, the Company acquired certain assets related to Jellico Community Hospital and CarePlus Center. Jellico Community Hospital was a 54-bed acute care facility that offered comprehensive services, including diagnostic imaging, radiology, surgery (general, gynecological and vascular), nuclear medicine, wound care and hyperbaric medicine, intensive care, emergency care and physical therapy. The CarePlus Center offers sophisticated testing capabilities and compassionate care, all in a modern, patient-friendly environment. Services include diagnostic imaging services, x-ray, mammography, bone densitometry, computed tomography (CT), ultrasound, physical therapy and laboratory services on a walk-in basis. On March 1, 2021, the Company closed Jellico Community Hospital, after the City of Jellico issued a 30-day termination notice for the lease of the building, as more fully discussed in Note 20. This closure is not expected to have a negative impact on the current position of the business or the longer-term business strategy.
The purchase price was $658,537. This purchase price was made available by Mr. Christopher Diamantis, a former member of the Company’s Board of Directors. The total cost of the acquisition was approximately $908,537, including $250,000 of diligence, legal and other costs associated with the acquisition. The acquisition costs were fully expensed in 2019.
The fair value of the purchase consideration paid to the sellers was allocated to the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. The Company accounted for the acquisition as a business combination under U.S. GAAP. In accordance with the acquisition method of accounting under ASC 805 the assets acquired, and liabilities assumed were recorded as of the acquisition date, at their respective fair values and consolidated with those of the Company.