On August 13, 2020, Mr. Diamantis entered into a Voting Agreement and Irrevocable Proxy with the Company, Mr. Lagan and Alcimede LLC (of which Mr. Lagan is the sole manager) pursuant to which Mr. Diamantis granted an irrevocable proxy to Mr. Lagan to vote the Series M Preferred Stock held by Mr. Diamantis, Mr. Diamantis has retained all other rights under the Series M Preferred Stock.
Series N Convertible Preferred Stock Exchanged for Series I-1 and Series I-2 Preferred Stock and Debentures
On August 31, 2020, the Company filed a certificate of designation to authorize 50,000 shares of its newly-authorized Series N Preferred Stock with a stated value of $1,000 per share. On August 31, 2020, the Company and its debenture holders exchanged, under the terms of the Exchange and Redemption Agreement, certain outstanding debentures and all of the outstanding shares of the Company’s Series I-1 Preferred Stock and Series I-2 Preferred Stock for 30,435.52 shares of the Company’s Series N Preferred Stock. The Exchange and Redemption Agreement is more fully discussed in Notes 9 and 13.
The terms of the Series N Preferred Stock were set forth in the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 1, 2020, In particular:
Voting Rights. Except as provided below or by law, the Series N Preferred Stock shall have no voting rights. However, as long as any shares of Series N Preferred Stock are outstanding, the Company shall not, without the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the then outstanding shares of the Series N Preferred Stock, (a) alter or change adversely the powers, preferences or rights given to the Series N Preferred Stock or alter or amend the Certificate of Designation, (b) amend its certificate of incorporation or other charter documents in any manner that adversely affects any rights of the holders, (c) increase the number of authorized shares of the Series N Preferred Stock, or (d) enter into any agreement with respect to any of the foregoing.
Dividends. Dividends at the rate per annum of 10% of the stated value per share shall accrue on each outstanding share of Series N Preferred Stock from and after the date of the original issuance of such share of Series N Preferred Stock (the “Preferred Accruing Dividends”). The Preferred Accruing Dividends shall accrue from day to day, whether or not declared, and shall be cumulative and non-compounding; provided, however, that such Preferred Accruing Dividends shall be payable only when, as, and if declared by the Board of Directors. No cash dividends shall be paid on the common stock unless the Preferred Accruing Dividends are paid.
Rank. The Series N Preferred Stock ranks with respect to dividends or a liquidation, (i) on parity with the common stock, the Company’s Series H Preferred Stock, the Company’s Series L Preferred Stock and the Company’s Series M Preferred Stock, (ii) senior to the Company’s Series F Preferred Stock, and (iii) junior to any other class or series of preferred stock of the Company afterwards created and ranking by its terms senior to the Series N Preferred Stock.
Conversion. Each share of the Series N Preferred Stock is convertible into shares of the Company’s common stock, at any time and from time to time, at the option of the holder, into that number of shares of common stock determined by dividing the stated value of such share of Series N Preferred Stock, plus any accrued declared and unpaid dividends, by the conversion price. The conversion price is equal to 90% of the lowest VWAP during the 10 trading days immediately prior to the conversion date. Holders of the Series N Preferred Stock are prohibited from converting Series N Preferred Stock into shares of common stock if, as a result of such conversion, the holder, together with its affiliates, would own more than 4.99% (or, upon election of the holder, 9.99%) of the total number of shares of common stock then issued and outstanding. However, any holder may increase or decrease such percentage to any other percentage not in excess of 9.99%, provided that any increase in such percentage shall not be effective until 61 days after notice to the Company.
Liquidation Preference. Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, the holders of the Series N Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an amount equal to the stated value of the Series N Preferred Stock, plus any accrued declared and unpaid dividends thereon and any other fees or liquidated damages then due and owing thereon, for each share of the Series N Preferred Stock before any distribution or payment shall be made on any junior securities.
Redemption. At any time the Company shall have the right to redeem all, or any part, of the Series N Preferred Stock then outstanding. The Series N Preferred Stock subject to redemption shall be redeemed by the Company in cash in an amount equal to the stated value of the shares of the Series N Preferred Stock being redeemed plus all accrued declared and unpaid dividends.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, the holder converted 1,001 shares of its Series N Preferred Stock, with a stated value of $1,001,000 into 38,371,250 shares of the Company’s common stock.
The following table summarizes the activity in the Company’s various classes of Preferred Stock included in Stockholders’ Deficit for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019:
Common Stock
The Company had 39,648,679 and 964,894 shares of common stock issued and outstanding at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company issued 313,000 shares of its common stock upon the conversion of 236.30 shares of its Series I-2 Preferred Stock and 38,371,250 shares of its common stock upon the conversion of 1,001 shares of its Series N Preferred Stock. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company issued 940,075 shares of common stock upon the conversion of 1,078.63 shares of its Series I-2 Preferred Stock and 11,962 shares of common stock upon the cashless exercise of warrants.
Common Stock and Common Stock Equivalents
The Company has outstanding options, warrants, convertible preferred stock and convertible debentures. Exercise of the options and warrants, and conversions of the convertible preferred stock and debentures could result in substantial dilution of our common stock and a decline in its market price. In addition, the terms of certain of the warrants, convertible preferred stock and convertible debentures issued by us provide for reductions in the per share exercise prices of the warrants and the per share conversion prices of the debentures and preferred stock (if applicable and subject to a floor in certain cases), in the event that we issue common stock or common stock equivalents (as that term is defined in the agreements) at an effective exercise/conversion price that is less than the then exercise/conversion prices of the outstanding warrants, preferred stock or debentures, as the case may be. These provisions, as well as the issuances of debentures and preferred stock with conversion prices that vary based upon the price of our common stock on the date of conversion, have resulted in significant dilution of our common stock and have given rise to reverse splits of our common stock.
On August 13, 2020, Mr. Diamantis entered into the Voting Agreement with the Company, Mr. Lagan and Alcimede LLC (of which Mr. Lagan is the sole manager) pursuant to which Mr. Diamantis granted an irrevocable proxy to Mr. Lagan to vote the Series M Preferred Stock held by Mr. Diamantis, Mr. Diamantis has retained all other rights under the Series M Preferred Stock. Regardless of the number of shares of Series M Preferred Stock outstanding and so long as at least one share of Series M Preferred Stock is outstanding, the outstanding shares of Series M Preferred Stock shall have the number of votes, in the aggregate, equal to 51% of all votes entitled to be voted at any meeting of stockholders or action by written consent. This means that the holders of Series M Preferred Stock have sufficient votes, by themselves, to approve or defeat any proposal voted on by the Company’s stockholders, unless there is a supermajority required under applicable law or by agreement. As a result of the Voting Agreement, as of the date of filing this report, the Company believes that it has the ability to ensure that it has and or can obtain sufficient authorized shares of its common stock to cover all potentially dilutive common shares outstanding.
Stock Options
The Company maintained and sponsored the Tegal Corporation 2007 Incentive Award Equity Plan (the “2007 Equity Plan”). Tegal Corporation is the prior name of the Company. The 2007 Equity Plan, as amended, provided for the issuance of stock options and other equity awards to the Company’s officers, directors, employees and consultants. The 2007 Equity Plan terminated pursuant to its terms in September 2017. The following table summarizes the stock option activity for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019:
As a result of the forfeiture of four unvested stock options during 2019, the Company reversed compensation expense previously recorded in prior years resulting in a net reduction of compensation expense of $51,899 for the year ended December 31, 2019. As of December 31, 2020, the weighted average remaining contractual life was 5.37 years for options outstanding and exercisable. The intrinsic value of options exercisable at December 31, 2020 and 2019 was $0. As of December 31, 2020, there was no remaining compensation expense as all of the outstanding options had fully vested as of December 31, 2019. The Company estimated forfeiture and volatility using historical information. The risk-free interest rate is based on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues over the equivalent lives of the options. The expected life of the options represents the estimated period using the simplified method. The Company has not paid cash dividends on its common stock and no assumption of dividend payment(s) is made in the model.
The following table summarizes information with respect to stock options outstanding and exercisable by employees and directors at December 31, 2020:
Warrants
The Company, as part of various debt and equity financing transactions, has issued warrants to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock.
During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, as a result of the anti-dilution provisions of outstanding warrants, the exercise prices of the warrants decreased and they became exercisable into an additional 4.5 billion and 58.2 million shares of common stock, respectively. These warrants were issued in connection with the issuances of the March 2017 Debentures and the September 2017 Debentures. These debentures are more fully discussed in Note 9.
Warrants Issued with March 2017 Debentures