section_1: Item 1. Business
Rennova Health, Inc. (“Rennova,” the “Company,” “we”, or “it”) is a provider of healthcare services for our patients. The Company’s business originally focused on diagnostics and healthcare software development. In late 2016, the Company decided to pursue the opportunity to acquire and operate clusters of rural hospitals and is currently focused on implementing this business model. The Company now owns one operating hospital, a hospital that it plans to reopen and operate, a physician’s office in Tennessee and a rural clinic in Kentucky. As the business focus has transitioned to rural hospital operations, the Company has been working to separate its software entities into its own public company and plans to sell its last clinical laboratory outside of its hospital labs, EPIC Reference Labs, Inc., and as a result the software entities’ and EPIC Reference Labs, Inc.’s operations have been classified as held for sale and included in discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The Company’s operations now consist of only one business segment, Hospital Operations.
Hospital Operations
We believe that the acquisition or development of rural hospitals is a viable business strategy and will create a stable revenue base from provision of a needed service in rural America. Rural hospitals deliver a needed health care service and employment to communities that would otherwise have to travel an hour or more to alternative locations.
Our hospital operations began on August 8, 2017, following the receipt of the required licenses and regulatory approvals to open our first hospital in Oneida, Tennessee. They generated net revenues of approximately $7.2 million and approximately $15.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. During 2020 and 2019, based on our revenue collection history achieved, management recognized an approximately 14% and 14% hospital collection rate against gross billing, respectively.
Scott County Community Hospital (DBA Big South Fork Medical Center)
On January 13, 2017, we closed on an asset purchase agreement to acquire certain assets related to Scott County Community Hospital, based in Oneida, Tennessee (the “Oneida Assets”). The Oneida Assets include a 52,000 square foot hospital building and 6,300 square foot professional building on approximately 4.3 acres. Scott County Community Hospital is classified as a Critical Access Hospital (rural) with 25 beds, a 24/7 emergency department, operating rooms and a laboratory that provides a range of diagnostic services. Scott County Community Hospital closed in July 2016 in connection with the bankruptcy filing of its parent company, Pioneer Health Services, Inc. We acquired the Oneida Assets out of bankruptcy for a purchase price of $1.0 million. The hospital, which has been renamed Big South Fork Medical Center, became operational on August 8, 2017.
Jamestown Regional Medical Center
On January 31, 2018, the Company entered into an asset purchase agreement to acquire certain assets related to an acute care hospital located in Jamestown, Tennessee, referred to as Jamestown Regional Medical Center. The purchase was completed on June 1, 2018. The hospital operations were acquired by a newly-formed subsidiary, Jamestown TN Medical Center, Inc., and the hospital is an 85-bed facility of approximately 90,000 square feet on over eight acres of land, which offers a 24-hour Emergency Department with two spacious trauma bays and seven private exam rooms, inpatient and outpatient medical services and a Progressive Care Unit which provides telemetry services. The acquisition also included a separate physician practice known as Mountain View Physician Practice, Inc. Jamestown is located 38 miles west of our Big South Fork Medical Center. The Company suspended operations at the hospital in June 2019, as a result of the termination of its Medicare agreement. The Company plans to reopen the hospital upon securing adequate capital to do so. The reopening plans have also been disrupted by the coronavirus (“COVID-19”) pandemic and the timing of the reopening has been delayed but is expected to be initiated in mid-2021.
Jellico Medical Center
On March 5, 2019, the Company closed an asset purchase agreement whereby it acquired certain assets related to an acute care hospital located in Jellico, Tennessee known as Jellico Community Hospital and an outpatient clinic located in Williamsburg, Kentucky known as CarePlus Center. The hospital and the clinic and their associated assets were acquired from Jellico Community Hospital, Inc. and CarePlus Rural Health Clinic, LLC, respectively.
On March 1, 2021, the Company closed Jellico Community Hospital, after the City of Jellico issued a 30-day termination notice for the lease of the building. The Company does not expect this closure to have an adverse effect on its business strategy and believes it will have a positive impact from a reduced cash requirement in the immediate future. Jellico Community Hospital was a 54-bed acute care facility that offered comprehensive services, including diagnostic imaging, radiology, surgery (general, gynecological and vascular), nuclear medicine, wound care and hyperbaric medicine, intensive care, emergency care and physical therapy. Jellico is located 33 miles east of our Big South Fork Medical Center. The CarePlus rural clinic in Kentucky offers sophisticated testing capabilities and compassionate care, all in a modern, patient-friendly environment. Services include diagnostic imaging services, x-ray, mammography, bone densitometry, computed tomography (CT), ultrasound, physical therapy and laboratory services on a walk-in basis.
The purchase price was $658,537. This purchase price was made available by Christopher Diamantis, a former member of the Company’s Board of Directors. Diligence, legal and other costs associated with the acquisition were approximately $250,000, meaning the total cost of acquisition to the Company was approximately $908,000.
At March 31, 2021, the Company owns one operating hospital in Oneida, Tennessee, a rural clinic in Williamsburg, Kentucky and a closed hospital facility and doctors’ practice in Jamestown, Tennessee which it plans to reopen. The Company continues to expand its centralized hospital division management team in Knoxville, Tennessee and plans to secure adequate capital to stabilize and improve its management team and operations throughout 2021. The Company remains confident that its strategy to own and operate a number of rural hospitals in a close geographic location is a viable business strategy.
Discontinued Operations
Advanced Molecular Services and Health Technology Solutions, Inc.
On July 12, 2017, we announced plans to spin off our Advanced Molecular Services Group (“AMSG”) and in the third quarter of 2017 our Board of Directors voted unanimously to spin off the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Health Technology Solutions, Inc. (“HTS”), as independent publicly traded companies by way of tax-free distributions to the Company’s stockholders. On June 10, 2020, the Company signed an agreement for the separation of these entities into a public company. The agreement with TPT Global Tech, Inc. (“TPT”) (OTC: TPTW), a California-based public company, was to merge HTS and AMSG into a public company after TPT completed a merger of its wholly-owned subsidiary, InnovaQor, Inc., with this public company. Rennova terminated its agreement with TPT on March 8, 2021 after numerous attempts to close the transaction as proposed failed due to uncertainty and last minute unviable demands from TPT that would have created a high risk to the future success of the project. Rennova is currently considering the actions of TPT with the belief that TPT acted outside of agreements that were in place and may have converted Rennova owned confidential information for their own benefit and business strategy. Rennova intends to pursue any remedy available to it under the law to recover money owed from TPT and to protect its technology and assets.
The Company continues to pursue options available to separate these entities and believes this can be accomplished in the second quarter of 2021. The strategic goal of this transaction is to create a separate public company which can focus on its own strengths and operational plans and create value for Rennova and its shareholders. The Company has reflected the amounts relating to AMSG and HTS (referred to as the AMSG & HTS Group) as deposal groups classified as held for sale and included in discontinued operations in the Company’s accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Clinical Diagnostics
Prior to our focus on hospital operations, our principal focus had been clinical laboratory blood and urine testing services, with a particular emphasis on the provision of urine drug toxicology testing to physicians, clinics and rehabilitation facilities in the United States. This sector had been fraught with difficulties over the past number of years as payers reduced reimbursement and coverage for diagnostics in this sector. The lack of consistency between payer’s policies and their requirement for proof of medical necessity created uncertainty for ordering physicians and testing laboratories and their ability to receive payment. During 2018, we reduced the number of laboratories we operated to one facility operated by EPIC Reference Labs, Inc. in Palm Beach County, Florida. During the third quarter of 2020, we announced that we had reached a tentative agreement to sell EPIC Reference Labs, Inc., to TPT and as a result EPIC Reference Labs, Inc.’s operations have been classified as held for sale and included in discontinued operations in the Company’s accompanying consolidated financial statements. This proposed sale was terminated by Rennova on March 10, 2021, along with a lab management agreement and other permissions that had been granted by Rennova to TPT. Rennova is owed certain payments under the agreements and intends to take the necessary actions to secure payments owed by TPT.
History and Development of the Company
Rennova Health, Inc. is the result of a merger between two public companies, Medytox Solutions, Inc. and CollabRx, Inc., in November 2015.
Medytox Solutions, Inc. (“Medytox”) was organized on July 20, 2005 under the laws of the State of Nevada. In the first half of 2011, Medytox’s management elected to reorganize as a holding company, and Medytox established and acquired a number of companies in the medical diagnostics service and healthcare software sector between 2011 and 2014.
On November 2, 2015, pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 15, 2015, by and among CollabRx, Inc. (“CollabRx”), CollabRx Merger Sub, Inc. (“Merger Sub”), a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of CollabRx formed for the purpose of the merger, and Medytox, Merger Sub merged with and into Medytox, with Medytox as the surviving company and a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of CollabRx (the “Merger”). Prior to closing, the Company amended its certificate of incorporation to change its name to Rennova Health, Inc. This transaction was accounted for as a reverse merger in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) and, as such, the historical financial statements of Medytox became the historical financial statements of the Company.
Recent and Other Developments
Reverse Stock Split
On July 30, 2020, the Company filed an Amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation in order to effect a 1-for-10,000 reverse stock split of the Company’s shares of common stock effective on July 31, 2020. On May 7, 2020, the holders of a majority of the total voting power of the Company’s securities approved an amendment to the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation to effect a reverse split of all of the Company’s shares of common stock at a specific ratio within a range from 1-for-100 to 1-for-10,000, and granted authorization to the Board of Directors to determine in its discretion the specific ratio and timing of the reverse split on or prior to December 31, 2020. The Board approved the specific ratio and timing on July 22, 2020.
As a result of the reverse stock split, every 10,000 shares of the Company’s pre-reverse split common stock were combined and reclassified into one share of the Company’s common stock. Proportionate voting rights and other rights of common stockholders were not affected by the reverse stock split, other than as a result of the cash payment for any fractional shares that would have otherwise been issued. Stockholders who would otherwise hold a fractional share of common stock received a cash payment in respect of such fraction of a share of common stock. No fractional shares were issued in connection with the reverse stock split.