The collection of outstanding receivables for Medicare, Medicaid, managed care payers, other third-party payers and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. The primary collection risks relate to uninsured patient accounts, including patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. Implicit price concessions relate primarily to amounts due directly from patients. Estimated implicit price concessions are recorded for all uninsured accounts, regardless of the aging of those accounts. Accounts are written off when all reasonable internal and external collection efforts have been performed. The estimates for implicit price concessions are based upon management’s assessment of historical writeoffs and expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal, state and private employer health care coverage and other collection indicators. Management relies on the results of detailed reviews of historical write offs and collections at facilities that represent a majority of our revenues and accounts receivable (the “hindsight analysis”) as a primary source of information in estimating the collectability of our accounts receivable. We perform the hindsight analysis quarterly, utilizing rolling twelve-months accounts receivable collection and write off data. We believe our quarterly updates to the estimated implicit price concession amounts at each of our hospital facilities provide reasonable estimates of our revenues and valuations of our accounts receivable.
Contractual Allowances and Doubtful Accounts Policy
Accounts receivable are reported at realizable value, net of allowances for credits and doubtful accounts, which are estimated and recorded in the period the related revenue is recorded. The Company has a standardized approach to estimating and reviewing the collectability of its receivables based on a number of factors, including the period they have been outstanding. Historical collection and payer reimbursement experience is an integral part of the estimation process related to allowances for contractual credits and doubtful accounts. In addition, the Company regularly assesses the state of its billing operations in order to identify issues which may impact the collectability of these receivables or reserve estimates. Receivables deemed to be uncollectible are charged against the allowance for doubtful accounts at the time such receivables are written-off. Recoveries of receivables previously written-off are recorded as credits to the allowance for doubtful accounts. Revisions to the allowances for doubtful accounts estimates are recorded as an adjustment to provision for bad debts. We continue to review the provision for bad debt and contractual allowances.
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
The Company accounts for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets according to Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 360, Property, Plant and Equipment (“ASC 360”). ASC 360 clarifies the accounting for the impairment of long-lived assets and for long-lived assets to be disposed of, including the disposal of business segments and major lines of business. Long-lived assets are reviewed when facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. When necessary, impaired assets are written down to estimated fair value based on the best information available. Estimated fair value is generally based on either appraised value or measured by discounting estimated future cash flows. Considerable management judgment is necessary to estimate discounted future cash flows. Accordingly, actual results could vary significantly from such estimates.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Fair Value
In July 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-11 “Earnings Per Share (Topic 260) Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (Topic 480) Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” The amendments in Part I of this Update change the classification analysis of certain equity-linked financial instruments (or embedded features) with down round features. When determining whether certain financial instruments should be classified as liabilities or equity instruments, a down round feature no longer precludes equity classification when assessing whether the instrument is indexed to an entity’s own stock. The amendments also clarify existing disclosure requirements for equity-classified instruments. As a result, a freestanding equity-linked financial instrument (or embedded conversion option) no longer would be accounted for as a derivative liability at fair value as a result of the existence of a down round feature. For freestanding equity classified financial instruments, the amendments require entities that present earnings per share (EPS) in accordance with Topic 260 to recognize the effect of the down round feature when it is triggered. That effect is treated as a dividend and as a reduction of income available to common shareholders in basic EPS. Convertible instruments with embedded conversion options that have down round features are now subject to the specialized guidance for contingent beneficial conversion features (in Subtopic 470-20, Debt-Debt with Conversion and Other Options), including related EPS guidance (in Topic 260).
When the down round feature is included in an equity-classified freestanding financial instrument, the value of the effect of the down round feature is treated as a dividend when it is triggered and as a numerator adjustment in the basic EPS calculation. This reflects the occurrence of an economic transfer of value to the holder of the instrument, while alleviating the complexity and income statement volatility associated with fair value measurement on an ongoing basis.
In accordance with Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 820, “Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures,” the Company applies fair value accounting for all financial assets and liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities which are required to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact and the market-based risk measurements or assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, such as risks inherent in valuation techniques, transfer restrictions and credit risk. Fair value is estimated by applying the following hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level of input that is available and significant to the fair value measurement:
● Level 1 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that we have the ability to access at the measurement date.
● Level 2 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; or quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets).
● Level 3 applies to assets or liabilities for which fair value is derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs are unobservable, including our own assumptions.
Year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019
The following table summarizes the results of our consolidated continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019:
Net Revenues
Consolidated net revenues were $7.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to $16.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, a decrease of $8.8 million. The decrease in net revenues was due to a reduction in revenues from Jamestown Regional Medical Center of $2.6 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to 2019. Operations at Jamestown Regional Medical Center were temporarily suspended beginning in June 2019 pending reinstatement of the hospital’s Medicare agreement. The Company plans to reopen the hospital upon securing adequate capital to do so. The reopening plans have also been disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic and the timing of the reopening has been delayed. The decrease in net revenues in the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the 2019 was also, in large part, a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which we attribute to the decrease in net revenues from Jellico Community Hospital and CarePlus Center of $4.3 million and net revenues from Big South Fork Medical Center of $1.8 million. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we believe demand for our services was reduced. Also reducing revenue were staffing issues and supply shortages caused by cash constraints during the 2020 period, which required us to divert patients to third party facilities.
Net revenues for years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 include bad debt expense elimination of $7.1 million and $8.5 million, respectively, for doubtful accounts and $45.5 million and $99.3 million, respectively, for contractual allowances. In a continued effort to refine our revenue recognition estimates, the Company practices the full retrospective approach, evaluating and analyzing the realizability of gross service revenues quarterly, to make certain that we are properly allowing for bad debt and contractual adjustments.
Direct Costs of Revenue
Direct costs of revenue decreased by $3.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to 2019. We attribute the decrease primarily to Jamestown Regional Medical Center, which was temporarily suspended beginning in June 2019, as well as decreases in the number of patients served at Jellico Community Hospital, CarePlus Center and Big South Fork Medical Center. As a percentage of net revenues, direct costs increased to 163.7% in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to 92.2% in 2019. We attribute the increase in the direct costs as a percentage of net revenues to the COVID-19 pandemic and the diversion of patients to third party facilities due to staffing issues and supply shortages caused by cash constraints during the year ended December 31, 2020. While the number of patients served decreased, certain direct costs of revenue remained.
General and Administrative Expenses
General and administrative expenses decreased by $4.5 million, or 27.8%, in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared 2019. The decrease in general and administrative expenses was mainly due to the temporary cessation of operations of Jamestown Regional Medical Center in June 2019. Also, contributing to the decrease were acquisition costs incurred in the 2019 period for the acquisition of Jellico Community Hospital and CarePlus Center on March 5, 2019 and reductions in insurance expense, compensation related expenses and directors fees.
Asset Impairment
As a result of the closure of Jellico Community Hospital on March 1, 2021, we determined that the hospital’s intangible asset, which was a certificate of need valued at $250,000, was impaired as of December 31, 2020.
Depreciation and Amortization Expenses
Depreciation and amortization expense was $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to $0.8 million in 2019 as certain fixed assets were fully depreciated during 2019.
Loss from Continuing Operations Before Other Income (Expense), Net and Income Taxes
Our operating loss increased by $1.5 million for year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to 2019. We attribute the increase in the loss primarily to the reduction in revenues.
Other Income (Expense), net
Other income (expense), net of $5.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 included $8.0 million of HHS Provider Relief Funds, partially offset by ($1.4) million in penalties associated with non-payment of payroll taxes and ($1.2) million of loss on the sale of accounts receivable under a sales agreement. Other income (expense), net of ($9.3) million for the year ended December 31, 2019 included ($6.9) million in penalties for non-payment of debentures on the maturity dates, ($1.0) million of penalties related to past due payments of payroll taxes and ($1.4) million of losses on sales of accounts receivable under sales agreements.
Net Gain from Legal Settlements