In connection with the March 2017 Debentures, the Company issued warrants to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock to several accredited investors. At December 31, 2020, these warrants were exercisable into an aggregate of approximately 4.1 billion shares of common stock. The warrants were issued to the investors in three tranches, Series A Warrants, Series B Warrants and Series C Warrants (collectively, the “March Warrants”). At December 31, 2020, the Series A Warrants were exercisable for 1.5 billion shares of the Company’s common stock. They were exercisable upon issuance and have a term of exercise equal to five years. At December 31, 2020, the Series B Warrants were exercisable for 974.0 million shares of the Company’s common stock and were initially exercisable for a period of 18 months. During 2018, the Company extended the exercise period twice, once to March 21, 2019 and the second time to June 21, 2019 and during 2019 the Company again extended the exercise period twice, once to September 21, 2019 and a second time to March, 31, 2022. As a result of these extensions, the Company recorded additional interest expense as more fully discussed in Note 12. At December 31, 2020, the Series C Warrants were exercisable for 1.6 billion shares of the Company’s common stock and have a term of five years provided such warrants shall only vest if, when and to the extent that the holders exercise the Series B Warrants. At December 31, 2020, the Series A, Series B and Series C Warrants each have an exercise price of $0.0118 per share, which reflects adjustments pursuant to their terms. The Series A, Series B and Series C Warrants are subject to “full ratchet” and other customary anti-dilution protections. For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, reductions in the exercise prices of the March Warrants have given rise to deemed dividends as more fully discussed in Notes 2, 3 and 12.
In connection with the September 2017 Debentures, the Company issued warrants to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock. At December 31, 2020, these warrants were exercisable into approximately six shares of common stock. The warrants were issued to the investors in three tranches, Series A Warrants, Series B Warrants and Series C warrants (collectively the “September Warrants”). At December 31, 2020, the Series A Warrants were exercisable for an aggregate of two shares of the Company’s common stock. They were exercisable upon issuance and have a term of exercise equal to five years. At December 31, 2020, the Series B Warrants were exercisable for an aggregate of two shares of the Company’s common stock and were initially exercisable for a period of 18 months. During 2018, the exercise period of the Series B Warrants was extended to June 19, 2019. On March 27, 2019, the expiration date of these Series B Warrants was extended 90 days to September 21, 2019 and again on May 10, 2019 the expiration date was extended to March, 31, 2022. These extensions resulted in de minimus amounts of interest expense. At December 31, 2020, the Series C Warrants were exercisable for an aggregate of two shares of the Company’s common stock, and have a term of five years provided such Series C Warrants shall only vest if, when and to the extent that the holders exercise the Series B Warrants. At December 31, 2020, the September Warrants exercise price was $9,016,133 per share, which is the per share floor exercise price as a result of reverse stock splits of the Company’s common stock that have been effected since these warrants were issued.
The number of warrants issued, converted and outstanding as well as the exercise prices of the warrants reflected in the table below have been adjusted to reflect the full ratchet and other dilutive and down round provisions pursuant to the warrant agreements. As a result of the full ratchet provisions of the majority of the outstanding warrants (subject to a floor in some cases), subsequent decreases in the price of the Company’s common stock and subsequent issuances of the Company’s common stock or common stock equivalents at prices below the current exercise prices of the warrants have resulted in increases in the number of shares issuable pursuant to the warrants and decreases in the exercise prices.
The following summarizes the information related to warrant activity during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020:
See above and Notes 3, 12 and 20 for a discussion of the dilutive effect of the outstanding warrants.
Note 15 - Income Taxes
The benefit (provision) from income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 consists of the following:
The following reconciles the Federal statutory income tax rate to the Company’s effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019:
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management evaluates whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. Management considers the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. Based on Management’s evaluation, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized and as such a valuation allowance has been recorded as of December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are comprised of the following at December 31, 2020 and 2019:
Management has reviewed the provisions regarding assessment of their valuation allowance on deferred tax assets and based on that criteria determined that it should record a valuation allowance of $28.0 million and $22.1 million against its deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The Company has federal net operating loss carryforwards totaling approximately $98.4 million generated since 2016. It also has various state net operating loss carryforwards that begin to expire in 2031.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, the U.S. Congress approved the CARES Act, which allows a five-year carryback privilege for federal net operating tax losses that arose in a tax year beginning in 2018 and through the current tax year, that is, 2020. As a result, during the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded approximately $1.1 million in refunds from the carryback of certain of its federal net operating losses. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded $0.3 million in refunds related to other net operating loss carryback adjustments and it received income tax refunds of $0.6 million related to the audit of the Company’s 2015 Federal tax return. See also Notes 4 and 16.
The Company recognizes the consolidated financial statement impact of a tax position only after determining that the relevant tax authority would more likely than not sustain the position following an audit. For tax positions meeting the more-likely-than-not threshold, the amount recognized in the consolidated financial statements is the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the relevant tax authority.
The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and the states of Florida, North Carolina, New Mexico, New Jersey, California, Kentucky and Tennessee. The tax regulations within each jurisdiction are subject to interpretation of related tax laws and regulations and require significant judgment to apply.
Note 16 - Commitments and Contingencies
Concentration of Credit Risk
Credit risk with respect to accounts receivable is generally diversified due to the large number of patients comprising the client base. The Company does have significant receivable balances with government payers and various insurance carriers. Generally, the Company does not require collateral or other security to support customer receivables. However, the Company continually monitors and evaluates its client acceptance and collection procedures to minimize potential credit risks associated with its accounts receivable and establishes an allowance for uncollectible accounts and as a consequence, believes that its accounts receivable credit risk exposure beyond such allowance is not material to the financial statements.
A number of proposals for legislation continue to be under discussion which could substantially reduce Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) reimbursements to hospitals and clinical laboratories. Depending upon the nature of regulatory action, and the content of legislation, the Company could experience a significant decrease in revenues from Medicare and Medicaid (CMS), which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is unable to predict, however, the extent to which such actions will be taken.
The Company maintains its cash balances in high credit quality financial institutions. The Company’s cash balances may, at times, exceed the deposit insurance limits provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Legal Matters
From time to time, the Company may be involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings related to contractual disputes, employment matters, regulatory and compliance matters, intellectual property rights and other litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry which may inherently lend itself to legal matters. Management is aware that litigation has associated costs and that results of adverse litigation verdicts could have a material effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. The Company’s policy is to expense legal fees and expenses incurred in connection with the legal proceedings in the period in which the expense is incurred. Management, in consultation with legal counsel, has addressed known assertions and predicted unasserted claims below.
Biohealth Medical Laboratory, Inc. and PB Laboratories, LLC (the “Companies”) filed suit against CIGNA Health in 2015 alleging that CIGNA failed to pay claims for laboratory services the Companies provided to patients pursuant to CIGNA - issued and CIGNA - administered plans. In 2016, the U.S. District Court dismissed part of the Companies’ claims for lack of standing. The Companies appealed that decision to the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals, which in late 2017 reversed the District Court’s decision and found that the Companies have standing to raise claims arising out of traditional insurance plans as well as self-funded plans. In July 2019, the Companies and EPIC Reference Labs, Inc. filed suit against CIGNA Health for failure to pay claims for laboratory services provided. Cigna Health, in turn, sued for improper billing practices. CIGNA’s case against the Company was dismissed on June 22, 2020. The suit remains ongoing but because the Company did not have the financial resources to see the legal action to conclusion it assigned the benefit, if any, from the suit to Christopher Diamantis for his assumption of the costs to carry the cost to conclusion.
In November of 2016, the IRS commenced an audit of the Company’s 2015 Federal tax return. Based upon the audit results and additional carryback adjustments, the Company made provisions of approximately $1.0 million as a liability and approximately $0.9 million as a receivable in its financial statements. During 2020, the Company received $0.6 million of income tax refunds. During the first quarter of 2020, the U.S. Congress approved the CARES Act, which allows a five-year carryback privilege for federal net operating tax losses that arose in a tax year beginning in 2018 and through the current tax year, that is, 2020. As a result, during the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded approximately $1.1 million in refunds from the carryback of certain of its federal net operating losses. Income taxes are more fully discussed in Note 15.