The reverse stock split became effective at 5:00 p.m., Eastern Time, on July 31, 2020 and the Company’s common stock continued to trade on a post-split basis at the open of business on August 3, 2020. The Company’s post-reverse split common stock has a new CUSIP number, but the par value and other terms of the common stock were not affected by the reverse stock split, except that, for the first 20 days after the reverse split, the common stock traded under the symbol “RNVAD”. It currently trades under our existing symbol “RNVA”. Prior to the reverse split, the Company had approximately 9.9 billion shares of common stock outstanding, which resulted in approximately 990,000 post-split shares.
All outstanding preferred shares, stock options, warrants and equity incentive plans immediately prior to the reverse stock split have generally been appropriately adjusted by dividing the number of shares of common stock into which the preferred shares, stock options, warrants and equity incentive plans were exercisable or convertible by 10,000 and multiplying the exercise or conversion price by 10,000, as a result of the reverse stock split.
Voting Agreement
On August 13, 2020, Christopher Diamantis, a former member of the Company’s Board of Directors, entered into a Voting Agreement and Irrevocable Proxy (the “Voting Agreement”) with the Company, Mr. Lagan and Alcimede LLC (of which Mr. Lagan is the sole manager) pursuant to which Mr. Diamantis granted an irrevocable proxy to Mr. Lagan to vote the Series M Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series M Preferred Stock”) held by Mr. Diamantis, Mr. Diamantis has retained all other rights under the Series M Preferred Stock. Regardless of the number of shares of Series M Preferred Stock outstanding and so long as at least one share of Series M Preferred Stock is outstanding, the outstanding shares of Series M Preferred Stock shall have the number of votes, in the aggregate, equal to 51% of all votes entitled to be voted at any meeting of stockholders or action by written consent. This means that the holders of Series M Preferred Stock have sufficient votes, by themselves, to approve or defeat any proposal voted on by the Company’s stockholders, unless there is a supermajority required under applicable law or by agreement.
Exchange of Debentures and Preferred Stock
On August 31, 2020, the Company entered into the Exchange, Redemption and Forbearance Agreement (the “Exchange and Redemption Agreement”) with certain institutional investors in the Company. In the Exchange and Redemption Agreement, the investors agreed to reduce their holdings of the Company’s debentures by approximately $19.3 million (including accrued interest and penalties) by exchanging the debentures and all of the outstanding shares of the Company’s Series I-1Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series I-1 Preferred Stock”) and Series I-2 Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series I-2 Preferred Stock”) for 30,435 shares of the Company’s newly-authorized Series N Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock (the “Series N Preferred Stock”). The terms of the Series N Preferred Stock are set forth in Note 14 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Mr. Diamantis is also a party to the Exchange and Redemption Agreement as he continues to be a guarantor of a portion of the remaining debt.
The investors continued to own, after the initial exchange, approximately $14.9 million (including accrued interest and penalties) of debentures, but agreed that the Company could redeem $10 million of its obligations under these debentures held by the investors at face value, plus accrued interest and penalties. These debentures include approximately $5.0 million under debentures that have been guaranteed by Mr. Diamantis. This redemption right was exercisable for 90 days after August 31, 2020. If it had been exercised in full, the remaining debentures held by the investors (totaling approximately $4.9 million, including accrued interest and penalties) would have been exchanged for approximately 4,900 additional shares of Series N Preferred Stock.
During the 90-day redemption period (or until the occurrence of certain specified events, if earlier), the investors agreed to forbear from exercising any remedies against the Company or Mr. Diamantis as a result of any existing defaults under the outstanding securities. During that period, additional interest and penalties did not accrue and would have been forgiven if the redemption right was exercised in full. The redemption right was not exercised and all such additional amounts have become due and payable. The Exchange and Redemption Agreement is more fully discussed in Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Financial Results
Our net loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $17.6 million, as compared to a loss of $46.6 million for the same period of a year ago. The improvement was primarily due to other income (expense), net of approximately $5.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to other income (expense), net of ($9.3) million in 2019, a $0.7 million net gain from legal settlements and a $2.0 million gain from the extinguishment of debt in the year ended December 31, 2020, a decrease in interest expense of $11.9 million in 2020 compared to 2019 and a $1.3 million income tax benefit in the year ended December 31, 2020. Partially offsetting the improvement in our net loss was an increase in the loss from continuing operations before other income (expense) and income taxes of $1.5 million.
Outlook
We believe that the transition of our business model from diagnostics is now complete and once stabilized will create more predictable and stable revenue. Rural hospitals provide a much-needed service to their local communities and reduce our reliance on commission-based sales employees to generate sales. We currently operate one hospital and a rural clinic in the same general geographic location and we own another hospital and physicians’ office at which operations are currently suspended. Owning a number of facilities in the same geographic location will create numerous efficiencies in purchasing and staffing and will enable the provision of additional, specialized and more valuable services that are needed by rural communities but cannot be sustained by a standalone rural hospital. We remain confident that this is a sustainable model we can continue to grow through acquisition and development and believe that we can benefit from the compliance and IT and software capabilities we already have in place. The progress of the COVID-19 pandemic, which is more fully discussed below, has severely affected our operations and may cause such expectations not to be achieved or, even if achieved, not to be done in the expected timeframe.
Impact of the Pandemic
The COVID-19 pandemic was declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization on March 11, 2020. We have been closely monitoring the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our operations and we have taken steps intended to minimize the risk to our employees and patients. These steps have increased our costs and our revenues have been significantly adversely affected. Demand for hospital services has substantially decreased. As noted in Notes 1 and 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, we have received Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”) loans (“PPP Notes”) as well as Health and Human Services (“HHS”) Provider Relief Funds from the federal government. If the COVID-19 pandemic continues for a further extended period, we expect to incur significant losses and additional financial assistance may be required. Going forward, we are unable to determine the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to affect our business. The nature and effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on our balance sheet and results of operations will depend on the severity and length of the pandemic in our service areas; government activities to mitigate the pandemic’s effect; regulatory changes in response to the pandemic, especially those affecting rural hospitals; and existing and potential government assistance that may be provided.
The COVID-19 pandemic and the steps taken by governments to seek to reduce its spread have severely impacted the economy and the health care industry in particular. Hospitals have especially been affected. Small rural hospitals, such as ours, may be overwhelmed by patients if conditions worsen in their local areas. Staffing costs, and concerns due to the potential exposure to infections, may increase, as may the costs of needed medical supplies necessary to keep the hospitals open. Doctors and patients may defer elective procedures and other health care services. Travel bans, social distancing and quarantines may limit access to our facilities. Business closings and layoffs in our local areas may result in the loss of insurance and adversely affect demand for our services, as well as the ability of patients and other payers to pay for services as rendered.
Hospitalizations in Tennessee for COVID-19 increased throughout 2020 and appear to have peaked in December 2020. From third-party information there have been 822,085 cases and 12,001 deaths as of April 12, 2021. The roll out of vaccinations is expected to significantly reduce the risk of death and reduce transmission of the virus and a return to more normal expectations is expected throughout 2021. These developments have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the Company and the operations of our hospitals. Our plans to reopen our Jamestown Regional Medical Center, whose operations were suspended in June 2019, have been disrupted by the pandemic and the timing of the reopening has been delayed.
On September 14, 2020, the Company announced that it had purchased and taken delivery of equipment to provide rapid testing for COVID-19 at Jellico Community Hospital, CarePlus Center and Big South Fork Medical Center in an effort to provide the Company with an additional revenue stream. On March 1, 2021, the Company closed Jellico Community Hospital, after the City of Jellico issued a 30-day termination notice for the lease of the building. The Company does not expect this closure to have an adverse effect on its business strategy and believes it will have a positive impact from a reduced cash requirement in the immediate future.
Competition
The healthcare industry is highly competitive among hospitals and other healthcare providers for patients, affiliations with physicians and acquisitions. The most significant competition our hospitals, and any other hospitals we may acquire, face comes from hospitals that provide more complex services, and other healthcare providers, including outpatient surgery, orthopedic, oncology and diagnostic centers that also compete for patients. Our hospitals, our competitors, and other healthcare industry participants are increasingly implementing physician alignment strategies, such as acquiring physician practice groups, employing physicians and participating in accountable care organizations (“ACOs”) or other clinical integration models, which may impact our competitive position. In addition, increasing consolidation within the payor industry, vertical integration efforts involving payors and healthcare providers, and cost-reduction strategies by large employer groups and their affiliates may impact our ability to contract with payors on favorable terms and otherwise affect our competitive position.
Governmental Regulation
Overview
The healthcare industry is governed by an extremely complex framework of federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations, and there continue to be federal and state proposals that would, and actions that do, impose limitations on government and private payments to providers. In addition, there regularly are proposals to increase co-payments and deductibles from program and private patients. Facilities also are affected by controls imposed by government and private payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay. Such controls include what is commonly referred to as “utilization review”. Utilization review entails the review of a patient’s admission and course of treatment by a third party. Historically, utilization review has resulted in a decrease in certain treatments and procedures being performed. Utilization review is required in connection with the provision of care which is to be funded by Medicare and Medicaid and is also required under many managed care arrangements.