Also, during the year ended December 31, 2020 we received approximately $2.3 million from PPP Notes and Company-owned facilities received approximately $12.5 million of HHS Provider Relief Funds, $8.0 million of which was recorded as other income and the remainder was recorded as a liability at December 31, 2020. The PPP Notes and accrued interest are forgivable as long as the borrower uses the loan proceeds for eligible purposes, including payroll, benefits, rent and utilities, and maintains its payroll levels. The amount of loan forgiveness will be reduced if the borrower terminates employees or reduces salaries. The Company is in the process of applying for forgiveness for the PPP Notes and accrued interest. The HHS Provider Relief Funds are grants, not loans, and HHS will not require repayment, but providers are restricted and the funds must be used only for grant approved purposes as more fully discussed in Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. We received approximately $1.2 million in cash from the issuance of a promissory note during the year ended December 31, 2020 that was used to repay amounts due under accounts receivable sales agreements and $2.1 million from the sale of accounts receivable under sales agreements. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2020, Mr. Diamantis loaned the Company $7.6 million, the majority of which was used for working capital purposes, and we repaid Mr. Diamantis $4.2 million.
As of December 31, 2020, we were party to legal proceedings, which are presented in Note 16 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
The following table presents our capital resources as of December 31, 2020 and 2019:
The following table presents the major sources and uses of cash for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019:
The components of cash used in operations for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are presented in the following table:
Cash used by investing activities of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 was used to purchase $0.4 million of hospital equipment, partially offset by $0.1 million provided by the sale of property and equipment. The cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 of $0.7 million was used primarily for the acquisition of Jellico Community Hospital.
Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 totaled $17.1 million and primarily included $7.6 million in loans from a former member of our Board of Directors, $2.3 million from PPP Notes, $12.5 million from HHS Provider Relief Funds, $2.1 million from the sales of accounts receivable and $1.2 million from the issuance of an installment note payable. Partially offsetting these cash receipts were $0.9 million in payments of debentures, $1.6 million of notes payable payments, $4.2 million in payments of loans owed to a former member of our Board of Directors, $1.7 million in payments of accounts receivable under sales agreements and $0.2 million of finance lease obligation payments. Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 of $14.2 million primarily included $16.7 million in loans from a former member of our Board of Directors, $3.8 million from the issuances of debentures, $1.6 million in proceeds from notes payable and $2.6 million in proceeds from the sales of accounts receivable under sales agreements. Partially offsetting these cash receipts were $2.3 million in payments of loans from a former member of our Board of Directors, $5.0 in payments of a note payable, $2.8 million in payments of accounts receivable under sales agreements, $0.1 million of finance lease obligation payments and $0.1 million in payment of financing fees.
The Company had 39,648,679 and 964,894 shares of common stock issued and outstanding at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company issued an aggregate of 313,000 shares of its common stock upon conversion of $277,994 of stated value of its Series I-2 Convertible Preferred Stock and 38,371,250 shares of its common stock upon conversion of $1,001,000 of stated value of shares of its Series N Preferred Stock.
These provisions have resulted in significant dilution of the Company’s common stock and have given rise to reverse splits of the Company’s common stock, including a reverse stock split effected on July 31, 2020, which is more fully described in Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
The terms of certain of the warrants, convertible preferred stock and convertible debentures issued by the Company provide for reductions in the per share exercise prices of the warrants and the per share conversion prices of the debentures and preferred stock (if applicable and subject to a floor in certain cases), in the event that the Company issues common stock or common stock equivalents (as that term is defined in the agreements) at an effective exercise/conversion price that is less than the then exercise/conversion prices of the outstanding warrants, preferred stock or debentures, as the case may be. In addition, the majority of these equity-based securities contain exercise or conversion prices that vary based upon the price of the Company’s common stock on the date of exercise/conversion (see Notes 3, 12, 13, 14 and 20 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements). These provisions have resulted in significant dilution of the Company’s common stock and have given rise to reverse splits of the Company’s common stock, including a reverse stock split effected on July 31, 2020, which is more fully described in Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. As a result of these down round provisions, the potential common stock equivalents, including common stock outstanding totaled 8.9 billion at December 31, 2020 and 25.9 billion at March 31, 2021.
OTHER MATTERS
Inflation
We do not believe inflation has a significant effect on the Company’s operations at this time.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
Under SEC regulations, we are required to disclose the Company’s off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Off-balance sheet arrangements consist of transactions, agreements or contractual arrangements to which any entity that is not consolidated with us is a party, under which we have:
● Any obligation under certain guarantee contracts.
● Any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity or similar arrangement that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to that entity for such assets.
● Any obligation under a contract that would be accounted for as a derivative instrument, except that it is both indexed to the Company’s stock and classified in stockholder’s equity in the Company’s statement of financial position.
● Any obligation arising out of a material variable interest held by us in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to us, or engages in leasing, hedging or research and development services with us.
As of December 31, 2020, the Company had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors.
Item 7A.
section_7A: Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.
Not applicable.
Item 8.
section_8: Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
RENNOVA HEALTH, INC.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the Years Ended December 31, 2020 and 2019
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and
Stockholders of Rennova Health, Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Rennova Health, Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ deficit, and cash flows for each of the years in the two-year period ended December 31, 2020, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the financial statements). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the two-year period ended December 31, 2020, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Consideration of the Company’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Company has recognized recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations, and currently has minimal revenue producing activities. This raises substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Management’s plans with regard to these matters are also described in Note 1. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of our audits, we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
Complex Financing Transactions
Description of the Matter:
As discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company’s financing transactions include warrants which contain down-round anti-dilution provisions. As a result, the exercise price of the warrants decreases and the warrants are revalued with each conversion of preferred stock or common stock issuance at a lower price than the warrant’s exercise price. The warrants are then revalued to their estimated fair value then recorded as a deemed dividend. Auditing management’s estimates of fair value requires a high degree of auditor judgment and an increased extent of effort, including the need to carefully examine to understand the true nature of the related agreements.
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit: